ID: user_private-car-package-policy
FILE: private-car-package-policy.pdf
========================================================================

PRIVATE CAR PACKAGE POLICY WORDING
Product Code - 3001 UIN : IRDAN115RP0017V01200102
STANDARD FORM FOR PRIVATE CAR PACKAGE POLICY The insured may authorise the repair of the vehicle necessitated by damage
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as stated in the for which the Company may be liable under this
Schedule which shall be the basis of this contract and is deemed to be Policy provided that :
incorporated herein has applied to the Company for the insurance hereinafter
a. The estimated cost of such repair including replacements, if any, does
contained and has paid the premium mentioned in the schedule as
not exceed ` 500/-;
consideration for such insurance in respect of accidental loss or damage
b. The Company is furnished forthwith with a detailed estimate of the
occurring during the period of insurance.
cost of repairs; and
NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSETH
c. The insured shall give the Company every assistance to see that
That subject to the Terms Exceptions and Conditions contained herein or
such repair is necessary and the charges are reasonable.
endorsed or expressed hereon;
SUM INSURED, INSURED’S DECLARED VALUE (IDV)
SECTION I. LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO THE VEHICLE INSURED
The Insured's Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle will be deemed to be the
The Company will indemnify the insured against loss or damage to the ‘SUM INSURED’ for the purpose of this Policy which is fixed at the
vehicle insured hereunder and/or its accessories whilst thereon commencement of each policy period for each insured vehicle.
1. By fire explosion self ignition or lightning; The IDV of the vehicle (and accessories if any fitted to the vehicle) is to be
2. By burglary housebreaking or theft; fixed on the basis of the manufacturer’s listed selling price of the brand and
model as the vehicle insured at the commencement of insurance/renewal
3. By riot and strike;
and adjusted for depreciation (as per schedule below).
4. By earthquake (fire and shock damage);
The schedule of age-wise depreciation as shown below is applicable for the
5. By flood typhoon hurricane storm tempest inundation cyclone hailstorm frost;
purpose of Total Loss/Constructive Total Loss (TL/CTL) claims only.
6. By accidental external means;
THE SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION FOR FIXING IDV OF THE VEHICLE
7. By malicious act;
AGE OF VEHICLE % OF DEPRECIATION
8. By terrorist activity;
FOR FIXING IDV
9. Whilst in transit by road rail inland-waterway lift elevator or air;
Not exceeding 6 months 5%
10 By landslide rockslide.
Exceeding 6 months but not exceeding 1 year 15%
Subject to a deduction for depreciation at the rates mentioned below in
respect of parts replaced : Exceeding 1 year but not exceeding 2 years 20%
1. For all rubber/nylon/plastic parts, tyres and tubes, batteries and air
Exceeding 2 years but not exceeding 3 years 30%
bags-50%
Exceeding 3 years but not exceeding 4 years 40%
2. For fibre glass components-30%
Exceeding 4 years but not exceeding 5 years 50%
3. For all parts made of glass-Nil
4. Rate of depreciation for all other parts including wooden parts will be as IDV of vehicles beyond 5 years of age and of obsolete models of the vehicles
per the following schedule. (i.e. models which the manufacturers have discontinued to manufacture) is
to be determined on the basis of an understanding between the insurer and
AGE OF VEHICLE % OF DEPRECIATION the insured.
Not exceeding 6months Nil IDV shall be treated as the .Market Value. throughout the policy period
without any further depreciation for the purpose of Total Loss
Exceeding 6months but not exceeding 1 year 5%
(TL)/Constructive Total Loss (CTL) claims.
Exceeding 1 year but not exceeding 2 years 10%
The insured vehicle shall be treated as a CTL if the aggregate cost of retrieval
Exceeding 2 years but not exceeding 3 years 15% and/or repair of the vehicle,
subject to terms and conditions of the policy, exceeds 75% of the IDV of the
Exceeding 3 years but not exceeding 4 years 25%
vehicle.
Exceeding 4 years but not exceeding 5 years 35%
LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES
Exceeding 5 years but not exceeding 10 years 40%
1. Subject to the limits of liability as laid down in the Schedule hereto the
Exceeding 10 years 50% Company will indemnify the insured in the event of an accident caused by or
arising out of the use of the vehicle against all sums which the insured shall
5. Rate of Depreciation for Painting: In the case of painting, the depreciation become legally liable to pay in respect of :-
rate of 50% shall be applied only on the material cost of total painting a. Death of or bodily injury to any person including occupants carried in
charges. In case of a consolidated bill for painting charges,the material the vehicle (provided such occupants are not carried for hire or
component shall be considered as 25% of the total painting charges for reward) but except so far as it is necessary to meet the
the purpose of applying the depreciation. requirements of Motor Vehicles Act, the Company shall not be liable
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of:- where such death or injury arises out of and in the course of the
employment of such person by the insured.
a. Consequential loss, depreciation, wear and tear, mechanical or
electrical breakdown, failures or breakages; b. Damage to property other than property belonging to the insured or
held in trust or in the custody or control of the insured.
b. Damage to tyres and tubes unless the vehicle is damaged at the same
time in which case the liability of the company shall be limited to 50% 2. The Company will pay all costs and expenses incurred with its written
of the cost of replacement and consent.
c. Any accidental loss or damage suffered whilst the insured or any 3. In terms of and subject to the limitations of the indemnity granted by this
person driving the vehicle with the knowledge and consent of the section to the insured, the Company will indemnify any driver who is
insured is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs. driving the vehicle on the insured’s order or with insured’s permission
provided that such driver shall as though he/she was the insured observe
In the event of the vehicle being disabled by reason of loss or damage covered
fulfill and be subject to the terms exceptions and conditions of this Policy
under this Policy the Company will bear the reasonable cost of protection and
in so far as they apply.
removal to the nearest repairer and redelivery to the insured but not exceeding
in all ` 1500/-in respect of any one accident.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -1- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
4. In the event of the death of any person entitled to indemnity under this 3. Any accidental loss damage and/or liability caused sustained or incurred
policy the Company will in respect of the liability incurred by such person whilst the vehicle insured herein is
indemnify his/her personal representative in terms of and subject to the
a. Being used otherwise than in accordance with the .Limitations as to
limitations of this Policy provided that such personal representative shall
as though such representative was the insured observe fulfill and be Use. or
subject to the terms exceptions and conditions of this Policy in so far as b. Being driven by or is for the purpose of being driven by him/her in the
they apply. charge of any person other than a Driver as stated in the Driver’s
5. The Company may at its own option Clause.
a. Arrange for representation at any Inquest or Fatal Inquiry in respect 4. a. Any accidental loss or damage to any property whatsoever or any
of any death which may be the subject of indemnity under this Policy loss or expense whatsoever resulting or arising there from or any
and consequential loss
b. Undertake the defence of proceedings in any Court of Law in respect b. Any liability of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by or
of any act or alleged offence causing or relating to any event which
contributed to by or arising from ionising radiations or contamination
may be the subject of indemnity under this Policy.
by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from
AVOIDANCE OF CERTAIN TERMS AND RIGHT OF RECOVERY the combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purpose of this exception
Nothing in this Policy or any endorsement hereon shall affect the right of any combustion shall include any self-sustaining process of nuclear fission.
person indemnified by this Policy or any other person to recover an amount 5. Any accidental loss or damage or liability directly or indirectly caused by
under or by virtue of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.
or contributed to by or arising from nuclear weapons material.
But the insured shall repay to the Company all sums paid by the Company
6. Any accidental loss damage and/or liability directly or indirectly or
which the Company would not have been liable to pay but for the said
proximately or remotely occasioned by contributed to by or traceable to
provisions.
or arising out of or in connection with war, invasion, the act of foreign
APPLICATION OF LIMITS OF INDEMNITY enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or after
In the event of any accident involving indemnity to more than one person declaration of war) civil war, mutiny rebellion, military or usurped power
any limitation by the terms of this Policy and/or of any Endorsement or by any direct or indirect consequence of any of the said occurrences
thereon of the amount of any indemnity shall apply to the aggregate and in the event of any claim hereunder the insured shall prove that the
amount of indemnity to all persons indemnified and such indemnity shall
accidental loss damage and/or liability arose independently of and was in
apply in priority to the insured.
no way connected with or occasioned by or contributed to by or
PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER FOR OWNER-DRIVER traceable to any of the said occurrences or any consequences thereof
The Company undertakes to pay compensation as per the following scale and in default of such proof, the Company shall not be liable to make any
for bodily injury/death sustained by the owner-driver of the vehicle, in payment in respect of such a claim.
direct connection with the vehicle insured or whilst driving or
DEDUCTIBLE
mounting into/dismounting from the vehicle insured or whilst traveling in it as
a co-driver, caused by violent accidental external and visible means which The Company shall not be liable for each and every claim under Section -I
independent of any other cause shall within six calendar months of such (loss of or damage to the vehicle insured) of this Policy in respect of the
injury result in: deductible stated in the schedule.
Scale of CONDITIONS
Nature of injury
compensation
This Policy and the Schedule shall be read together and any word or
(ii) Death 100% expression to which a specific meaning has been attached in any part of this
Policy or of the Schedule shall bear the same meaning wherever it may appear.
(ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes or one limb
100% 1. Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately upon the
and sight of one eye.
occurrence of any accidental loss or damage in the event of any claim
(iii)Loss of one limb or sight of one eye 50% and thereafter the insured shall give all such information and assistance
as the Company shall require. Every letter claim writ summons and/or
(iv)Permanent total disablement from injuries other
100% process or copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Company immediately
than named above.
on receipt by the insured. Notice shall also be given in writing to the
Provided always that Company immediately the insured shall have knowledge of any
impending prosecution, inquest or fatal inquiry in respect of any
1. Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items (i) to (iv)
above in respect of the owner-driver arising out of any one occurrence occurrence which may give rise to a claim under this Policy. In case of
and the total liability of the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the theft or criminal act which may be the subject of a claim under this
sum of ` 15 lakhs during any one period of insurance. Policy the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and
cooperate with the Company in securing the conviction of the offender.
2. No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or bodily injury
directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or resulting from or Wherever details pertaining to any incident which results in a claim, are
traceable to (1) intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide conveyed by the insured to the insurer after reasonable period, insured
physical defect or infirmity or (2) an accident happening whilst such shall provide the reasons of such delay to the insurer and insurer may on
person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
analysis of reasons provided by insured, condone the delay in intimation
3. Such compensation shall be payable directly to the insured or to his/her of claim or delay in providing the required information/documents to the
legal representatives whose receipt shall be the full discharge in respect insurer.
of the injury to the insured.
2. No admission offer promise payment or indemnity shall be made or given
a. This cover is subject to by or on behalf of the insured without the written consent of the
i. The owner-driver is the registered owner of the vehicle insured Company which shall be entitled if it so desires to take over and conduct
herein; in the name of the insured the defence or settlement of any claim or to
prosecute in the name of the insured for its own benefit any claim for
ii. The owner-driver is the insured named in this policy.
indemnity or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of
iii. The owner-driver holds an effective driving license, in accordance
any proceedings or in the settlement of any claim and the insured shall
withGeneral Exceptio the provisions of Rule 3 of the Central
give all such information and assistance as the Company may require.
Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, at the time of the accident.
3. The Company may at its own option repair reinstate or replace the vehicle
4. The personal accident cover for owner driver is mandatory for a period of
or part thereof and/or its accessories or may pay in cash the amount of
one year and may be extended, in line with the duration of policy, at the
the loss or damage and the liability of the Company shall not exceed:
discretion of the customer”
a. For total loss/constructive total loss of the vehicle-the Insured’s
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle (including accessories thereon)
(Applicable to all Sections of the Policy) as specified in the Schedule less the value of the wreck.
The Company shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of b For partial losses, i.e. losses other than Total Loss/Constructive Total
Loss of the vehicle actual and reasonable costs of repair and/or
1. Any accidental loss or damage and/or liability caused sustained or
replacement of parts lost/damaged subject to depreciation as per
incurred outside the geographical area;
limits specified.
2. Any claim arising out of any contractual liability;
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -2- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
4. The insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle from No claim made or pending during the
loss or damage and to maintain it in efficient condition and the Company preceding 3 consecutive years of insurance 35%
shall have at all times free and full access to examine the vehicle or any part
No claim made or pending during the
thereof or any driver or employee of the insured. In the event of any accident
preceding 4 consecutive years of insurance 45%
or breakdown, the vehicle shall not be left unattended without proper
No claim made or pending during the
precautions being taken to prevent further damage or loss and if the vehicle
preceding 5 consecutive years of insurance 50%
be driven before the necessary repairs are effected any extension of the
damage or any further damage to the vehicle shall be entirely at the Sunset Clause : If at the renewal falling due any time between 1st July 2002 and
insured’s own risk. 30th June 2003, both days inclusive, (after completion of the full policy period of
12 months) an insured becomes entitled to an NCB of 55% or 65% in terms of the
5. The Company may cancel the policy by sending seven days notice by
Tariff prevailing prior to 1st July 2002, the entitlement of such higher percentage
recorded delivery to the insured at insured’s last known address and in such
of NCB will remain protected for all subsequent renewals till a claim arises
event will return to the insured the premium paid less the pro rata portion
under the policy, in which case the NCB will revert to ‘Nil’ at the next renewal.
thereof for the period the Policy has been in force or the policy may be
Thereafter, NCB if any earned, will be in terms of the above table.
cancelled at any time by the insured on seven days. notice by recorded
delivery and provided no claim has arisen during the currency of the policy, INDIA MOTOR TARIFF – ENDORSEMENTS
the insured shall be entitled to a return of premium less premium at the
IMT. 1. Extension of Geographical Area
Company’s Short Period rates for the period the Policy has been in force.
Return of the premium by the company will be subject to retention of the In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `....................it is
minimum premium of `100/- (or ` 25/-in respect of vehicles specifically hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained in this
designed/modified for use by blind/handicapped/ mentally challenged Policy to the contrary the Geographical Area in this Policy shall from the ... /...
persons). Where the ownership of the vehicle is transferred, the policy /....... to the ... /... /.......(both days inclusive) be deemed to include.*
cannot be cancelled unless evidence that the vehicle is insured elsewhere is It is further specifically understood and agreed that such geographical
produced. extension excludes cover for damage to the vehicle insured/ injury to its
6. If at the time of occurrence of an event that gives rise to any claim under this occupants/third party liability in respect of the vehicle insured during sea
policy there is in existence any other insurance covering the same liability, voyage/air passage for the purpose of ferrying the vehicle insured to the
the Company shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable extended geographical area.
proportion of any compensation, cost or expense. Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
7. The parties to the contract may mutually agree and enter into a separate Policy.
Arbitration Agreement to settle any and all disputes in relation to this policy. NOTE : Insert Nepal/ Sri Lanka/Maldives/Bhutan/ Pakistan/Bangladesh as the
Arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions case may be.
of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. (only applicable to corporate IMT. 2. AGREED VALUE CLAUSE (APPLICABLE ONLY TO VINTAGE CARS)
customers)
It is hereby declared and agreed that in case of TOTAL LOSS/CONSTRUCTIVE
8. The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions and TOTAL LOSS of the Vintage Car insured hereunder due to a peril insured against,
endorsements of this Policy in so far as they relate to anything to be done or the amount payable will be the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle as
complied with by the insured and the truth of the statements and answers in mentioned in the Policy without deduction of any depreciation.
the said proposal shall be conditions precedent to any liability of the
It is further declared and agreed that in case of partial loss to the vehicle,
Company to make any payment under this Policy.
depreciation on parts replaced will be as stated in Section I of the Policy. Subject
9. In the event of the death of the sole insured, this policy will not immediately otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this Policy.
lapse but will remain valid for a period of three months from the date of the
IMT. 3. TRANSFER OF INTEREST
death of insured or until the expiry of this policy (whichever is earlier).
During the said period, legal heir(s) of the insured to whom the custody and It is hereby understood and agreed that as from ...../...../......... the interest in the
use of the Motor Vehicle passes may apply to have this Policy transferred to policy is transferred to and vested in .......of ....... carrying on or engaged in the
the name(s) of the heir(s) or obtain a new insurance policy for the Motor business or profession of ...... who shall be deemed to be the insured and whose
Vehicle. Where such legal heir(s) desire(s) to apply for transfer of this policy proposal and declaration dated ....../........./............. shall be deemed to be
or obtain a new policy for the vehicle such heir(s) should make an incorporated in and to be the basis of this contract.
application to the Company accordingly within the aforesaid period. All
Provided always that for the purpose of the No Claim Bonus, no period during
such applications should be accompanied by:-
which the interest in this policy has been vested in any previous Insured shall
a. Death Certificate in respect of the insured accrue to the benefit of.
b. Proof of title to the vehicle Original Policy. Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
policy.
NO CLAIM BONUS :
IMT. 4. Change of Vehicle
No Claim Bonus, wherever applicable, will be as per the following table.
It is hereby understood and agreed that as from ....../........./............. the vehicle
ALL TYPES OF VEHICLES % OF DISCOUNT ON OWN
bearing Registration Number ...... is deemed to be deleted from the Schedule of
DAMAGE PREMIUM
the Policy and the vehicle with details specified hereunder is deemed to be
No claim made or pending during the included therein-
preceding full year of insurance 20%
No claim made or pending during the
preceding 2 consecutive years of insurance 25%
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -3- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Regd Engine/ Make Type C.C. Year of Seating IDV It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the Personal Accident
No. Chassis of Body Manufac- Capacity Cover for the owner-driver granted under this policy, the insured named in
the policy will continue to be deemed as the owner-driver subject to
No. ture Including
compliance of provisions of the policy relating to this cover.
Driver
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed that nothing herein shall modify
or affect the rights or liabilities of the Insured or the Insurer respectively under
or in connection with this Policy or any term, provision or condition thereof.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
policy.
In consequence of this change, an extra/refund premium of `............ is IMT. 8. DISCOUNT FOR MEMBERSHIP OF RECOGNISED AUTOMOBILE
charged/allowed to the insured. ASSOCIATIONS (PRIVATE CARS AND MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS ONLY)
It is hereby understood and agreed that in consideration of insured’s
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
membership of ......** a discount in premium of ` ....................* is allowed to
Policy.
the insured hereunder from ... /... /.......
IMT. 5. HIRE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
It is further understood and agreed that if the insured ceases to be a member
It is hereby understood and agreed that .................. (hereinafter referred to of the above mentioned association during the currency of this Policy the
as the Owners) are the Owners of the vehicle insured and that the vehicle insured shall immediately notify the insurer accordingly and refund to the
insured is subject of an Hire Purchase Agreement made between the Owners insurer a proportionate amount of the discount allowed on this account for
on the one part and the insured on the other part and it is further understood the unexpired period of the cover.
and agreed that the Owners are interested in any monies which but for this
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of the
Endorsement would be payable to the insured under this policy in respect of
policy
such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as cannot be made good by repair
and/or replacement of parts and such monies shall be paid to the Owners as * For full policy period, the full tariff discount to be inserted. For mid-term
long as they are the Owners of the vehicle insured and their receipt shall be a membership, prorata proportion of the tariff discount for the unexpired policy
full and final discharge to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage. period is to be inserted.
** Insert name of the concerned Automobile Association.
It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the Personal Accident
Cover for the owner-driver granted under this policy, the insured named in IMT. 9. DISCOUNT FOR VINTAGE CARS (Applicable to Private Cars only)
the policy will continue to be deemed as the owner-driver subject to It is hereby understood and agreed that in consideration of the insured car
compliance of provisions of the policy relating to this cover. having been certified as a Vintage Car by the Vintage and Classic Car Club of
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed nothing herein shall modify or India, a discount of ` ......................* is allowed to the insured from ........
affect the rights and liabilities of the insured or the insurer respectively under /......... /...........
or in connection with this Policy. Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of the
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy
policy. *Amount calculated as per tariff provision is to be inserted. For mid-term
certification as Vintage Car pro-rata proportion of tariff discount for the
IMT. 6. LEASE AGREEMENT
unexpired period is to be inserted.
It is hereby understood and agreed that .............. (hereinafter referred to as
IMT. 10. INSTALLATION OF ANTI-THEFT DEVICE (Not applicable to
the Lessors) are the Owners of the vehicle insured and that the vehicle
Motor Trade Policies)
insured is the subject of a Lease Agreement made between the Lessor on the
one part and the insured on the other part and it is further understood and In consideration of certification by .......* that an Anti-Theft device approved
agreed that the Lessors are interested in any monies which but for this by Automobile Research Association of India (ARAI), Pune has been installed
Endorsement would be payable to the insured under this policy in respect of in the vehicle insured herein a premium discount of `...............................**
such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as cannot be made good by repair is hereby allowed to the insured.
and/or replacement of parts and such monies shall be paid to the Lessors as It is hereby understood and agreed that the insured shall ensure at all times
long as they are the Owners of the vehicle insured and their receipt shall be a that this Anti-theft device installed in the vehicle insured is maintained in
full and final discharge to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage. It is efficient condition till the expiry of this policy. Subject otherwise to the
also understood and agreed that notwithstanding any provision in the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of the policy
Leasing Agreement to the contrary, this policy is issued to the insured
*The name of the certifying Automobile Association is to be inserted.
namely ...... as the principal party and not as agent or trustee and nothing
herein contained shall be construed as constituting the insured an agent or ** Premium discount calculated as per tariff provision is to be inserted. For
trustee for the Lessors or as an assignment (whether legal or equitable) by mid-term certification of installation of Anti Theft device pro-rata proportion
the insured to the Lessors, of his rights benefits and claims under this policy of tariff discount for the unexpired period is to be inserted.
and further nothing herein shall be construed as creating or vesting any right IMT. 11. A. VEHICLES LAID UP ( Lay up period declared )
in the Owner/Lessor to sue the insurer in any capacity whatsoever for any
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby
alleged breach of its obligations hereunder.
understood and agreed that from ........ /......... /........... to ........ /......... /...........
It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the Personal Accident the vehicle insured is laid up in garage and not in use and during this period
Cover for the owner-driver granted under this policy, the insured named in all liability of the insurer under this policy in respect of the vehicle insured is
the policy will continue to be deemed as the owner-driver subject to suspended SAVE ONLY IN RESPECT OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO THE SAID
compliance of provisions of the policy relating to this cover. VEHICLE CAUSED BY FIRE EXPLOSION SELF-IGNITION OR LIGHTNING OR
BURGLARY, HOUSEBREAKING, THEFT OR RIOT STRIKE MALICIOUS DAMAGE
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed nothing herein shall modify or
TERRORISM OR STORM TEMPEST FLOOD INUNDATION OR EARTHQUAKE
affect the rights and liabilities of the insured or the insurer respectively under
PERILS, in consideration whereof
or in connection with this Policy.
1. # The insurer will deduct from the next renewal premium the sum of
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
`..........................* and the No Claim Bonus (if any) shall be calculated
policy.
on the next renewal premium after deduction of such sum.
IMT. 7. Vehicles subject to Hypothecation Agreement
2. # The period of insurance by this policy is extended to ........ /......... /...........
It is hereby declared and agreed that the vehicle insured is pledged in view of the payment of an additional premium of `...............................**
to/hypothecated with................... (hereinafter referred to as the Pledgee) and Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
it is further understood and agreed that the Pledgee is interested in any policy.
monies which but for this Endorsement would be payable to the insured
NB.1. # To delete (a) or (b) as per option exercised by the insured.
under this policy in respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as
cannot be made good by repair and/or replacement of parts and such monies NB.2. *The proportionate full policy premium for the period of lay up less the
shall be paid to the Pledgee as long as they are the Pledgee of the vehicle proportionate premium for the Fire and/or Theft risks for the lay up periods is
insured and their receipt shall be a full and final discharge to the insurer in to be inserted.
respect of such loss or damage.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -4- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
NB.3 ** The proportionate premium required for Fire and/or Theft cover for IMT. 14. USE OF VEHICLE CONFINED TO SITES (Applicable to Goods
the vehicle for the laid up period is to be inserted. Carrying Vehicles)
NB.4. In case of Liability Only Policies the words in CAPITALS should be It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall not be liable in
deleted. respect of the vehicle insured while it is being used elsewhere than on site to
which the public have no general right of access and the vehicle is not
NB.5. In case of policies covering Liability Only and
required to be registered under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
1. Fire risks, the words ‘BURGLARY HOUSEBREAKING OR THEFT’ are to be
IMT. 15. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER TO THE INSURED OR ANY
deleted;
NAMED PERSON OTHER THAN PAID DRIVER OR CLEANER (Applicable
2. Theft risks, the words ‘FIRE EXPLOSION SELF IGNITION OR LIGHTNING’ to private cars including three wheelers rated as private cars and
are to be deleted. motorized two wheelers with or without side car [not for hire or reward)
3. Fire and Theft risks no part of the words in capitals are to be deleted. In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby agreed
and understood that the Company undertakes to pay compensation on the
IMT. 11. B. VEHICLES LAID UP ( Lay up period not declared )
scale provided below for bodily injury as hereinafter defined sustained by the
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby insured person in direct connection with the vehicle insured or whilst
understood and agreed that as from ........ /......... /........... the vehicle mounting and dismounting from or traveling in vehicle insured and caused by
no. ........... insured hereunder is laid up in garage and not in use and liability of violent accidental external and visible means which independently of any
the insurer under this policy in respect of the said vehicle is suspended SAVE other cause shall within six calendar months of the occurrence of such injury
ONLY IN RESPECT OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO THE SAID VEHICLE CAUSED BY result in:-
FIRE EXPLOSION SELF-IGNITION OR LIGHTNING OR BURGLARY,
HOUSEBREAKING, THEFT OR RIOT STRIKE MALICIOUS DAMAGE TERRORISM Scale of
Nature of injury
OR STORM TEMPEST FLOOD INUNDATION OR EARTHQUAKE PERILS. compensation
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this (i) Death 100%
Policy.
(ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes or one limb
NB.1. In case of Liability Only Policies the words in CAPITALS should be 100%
and sight of one eye.
deleted.
(iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye 50%
NB.2. In case of policies covering Liability Only and
(iv) Permanent total disablement from injuries other
1. Fire risks, the words ‘BURGLARY HOUSEBREAKING OR THEFT’ are to be 100%
than named above.
deleted;
2. Theft risks, the words ‘FIRE EXPLOSION SELF IGNITION OR LIGHTNING’
Provided always that
are to be deleted.
(1) Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items (i) to (iv)
3. Fire and Theft risks no part of the words in capitals are to be deleted. above in respect of any such person arising out of any one occurrence
IMT. 11. C. TERMINATION OF THE UNDECLARED PERIOD OF VEHICLE and total liability of the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum
LAID UP of `...............................* during any one period of insurance in respect of
any such person.
It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurance by this Policy in
respect of vehicle no. ..... insured hereunder is reinstated in full (2) No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or injury directly or
from ........ /......... /........... and the Endorsement IMT 11(B) attaching to this indirectly wholly or in part arising or resulting from or traceable to (a)
policy shall be deemed to be cancelled. It is further agreed that in intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or
consideration of the period during which the vehicle no. ......... has been out infirmity or (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
of use influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
(3) Such compensation shall be payable only with the approval of the
1. # The insurer will deduct from the next renewal premium the sum of
insured named in the policy and directly to the injured person or his/her
`.........................* and the No Claim Bonus (if any) shall be calculated on
legal representative(s) whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect
the next renewal premium after deduction of such sum.
of the injury of such person.
2. # The period of insurance by this policy is extended to ..../..../....... in
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
view of the payment of an additional premium of `...............................**
policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy.
* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be inserted.
NB.1. # To delete (a) or (b) as per option exercised by the insured.
IMT. 16. PERSONAL ACCIDENT TO UNNAMED PASSENGERS OTHER
NB.2. * The proportionate full policy premium for the period of lay up less the THAN INSURED AND THE PAID DRIVER AND CLEANER {For vehicles
proportionate premium for the Fire a nd /or Theft risks for the lay up periods rated as Private cars and Motorised two wheelers (not for hire or
is to be inserted. reward) with or without side car}
NB.3 ** The proportionate premium required for Fire and/or Theft cover for In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
the vehicle for the laid-up period is to be inserted. understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes to pay compensation on
the scale provided below for bodily injuries hereinafter defined sustained by
IMT. 12. DISCOUNT FOR SPECIALLY DESIGNED/MODIFIED VEHICLES FOR
any passenger other than the insured and/or the paid driver attendant or
THE BLIND, HANDICAPPED AND MENTALLY CHALLENGED PERSONS.
cleaner and/or a person in the employ of the insured coming within the scope
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby of the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent amendments of
understood and agreed that the vehicle insured being specially designed the said Act and engaged in and upon the service of the insured at the time
/modified for use of blind, handicapped and mentally challenged persons and such injury is sustained whilst mounting into, dismounting from or traveling
suitable endorsement to this effect having been incorporated in the in the insured motor car and caused by violent, accidental, external and
Registration Book by the Registering Authority, a discount of 50% on the Own visible means which independently of any other cause shall within three
Damage premium for the vehicle insured is hereby allowed to the insured. calendar months of the occurrence of such injury result in :
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of the
Scale of
policy. Nature of injury
compensation
IMT. 13. USE OF VEHICLE WITHIN INSURED’S OWN PREMISES
(Applicable to all classes except as otherwise provided in the tariff) (i) Death 100%
It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall not be liable in (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes or one limb
100%
respect of the vehicle insured while the vehicle is being used elsewhere than and sight of one eye.
in the insured’s premises except where the vehicle is specifically required for
(iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye 50%
a mission to fight a fire.
(iv) Permanent total disablement from injuries other
For the purposes of this endorsement ‘Use confined to own premises’ shall 100%
than named above.
mean use only on insured’s premises to which public have no general right of
access.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -5- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Provided always that:- Scale of
Nature of injury
(1) Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items (i) to (iv) compensation
above in respect of any such person arising out of any one occurrence
(i) Death 100%
and total liability of the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum
of `..............................* during any one period of insurance in respect of (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes or one limb
100%
any such person. and sight of one eye.
(2) No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or injury directly or (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye 50%
indirectly wholly or in part arising or resulting from or traceable to (a)
(iv) Permanent total disablement from injuries other
intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or 100%
than named above.
infirmity or (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
Provided always that:
(3) Such compensation shall be payable only with the approval of the
(1) Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items (i) to (iv)
insured named in the policy and directly to the injured person or his/her
above in respect of any such person arising out of any one occurrence
legal representative(s) whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect
and total liability of the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum
of the injury of such person.
of `.................** during any one period of insurance in respect of any
(4) Not more than....** persons/passengers are in the vehicle insured at the such person.
time of occurrence of such injury.
(2) No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or injury directly or
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this indirectly wholly or in part arising or resulting from or traceable to (a)
policy. intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or
infirmity or (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be inserted.
influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
** The registered sitting capacity of the vehicle insured is to be inserted.
(3) Such compensation shall be payable only with the approval of the
IMT. 17. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER TO PAID DRIVERS, CLEANERS insured named in the policy and directly to the injured person or his/her
AND CONDUCTORS: (Applicable to all classes of vehicles) legal representative(s) whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect
of the injury of such person.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium, it is hereby
understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes to pay compensation on (4) Not more than .... persons/passengers are in the vehicle insured at the
the scale provided below for bodily injury as hereinafter defined sustained by time of occurrence of such injury.
the paid driver/cleaner/conductor in the employ of the insured in direct Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
connection with the vehicle insured whilst mounting into dismounting from policy.
or traveling in the insured vehicle and caused by violent accidental external
* Delete if P.A. cover for unnamed pillion/side car passenger is not taken.
and visible means which independently of any other cause shall within six
calendar months of the occurrence of such injury result in : ** The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be inserted.
IMT. 19. COVER FOR VEHICLES IMPORTED WITHOUT CUSTOMS DUTY
Scale of
Nature of injury Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this policy it is hereby
compensation
understood and agreed that in the event of loss or damage to the vehicle
(i) Death 100% insured and/or its accessories necessitating the supply of a part not
obtainable from stocks held in the country in which the vehicle insured is
(ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes or one limb
100% held for repair or in the event of the insurer exercising the option under ...., *
and sight of one eye.
to pay in cash the amount of the loss or damage the liability of the insurer in
(iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye 50% respect of any such part shall be limited to :-
(iv) Permanent total disablement from injuries other 1. a. The price quoted in the latest catalogue or the price list issued by the
100% Manufacturer or his Agent for the country in which the vehicle
than named above.
insured is held for repair less depreciation applicable; OR
Provided always that b. If no such catalogue or price list exists the price list obtaining at the
Manufacturer’s Works plus the reasonable cost of transport
1. Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items (i) to (iv)
otherwise than by air to the country in which the vehicle insured is
above in respect of any such person arising out of any one occurrence
held for repair and the amount of the relative import duty less
and total liability of the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum
depreciation applicable under the Policy; and
of `..............................* during any one period of insurance in respect of
any such person. 2. The reasonable cost of fitting such parts.
2. No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or injury directly or Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this
indirectly wholly or in part arising or resulting from or traceable to (a) Policy.
intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or * Insert ‘Condition 3’ in the case of the Private Car and Motorsied Two
infirmity or (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the Wheeler Policies and ‘Condition 4’ in the case of Commercial Vehicles Policy.
influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
IMT. 20. REDUCTION IN THE LIMIT OF LIABILITY FOR PROPERTY
3. Such compensation shall be payable only with the approval of the insured DAMAGE
named in the policy and directly to the injured person or his/her legal
It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything to the
representative(s) whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the
contrary contained in the policy the insurers liability is limited to ` 6000/-
injury of such person.
(Rupees six thousand only) for damage to property other than the property
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this belonging to the insured or held in trust or in custody or control of the
policy. insured. In consideration of this reduction in the limit of liability a reduction in
premium of `..........* is hereby made to the insured.
* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per person is to be inserted.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of the
IMT. 18. PERSONAL ACCIDENT TO UNNAMED HIRER AND UNNAMED
policy.
PILLION PASSENGERS (Applicable to Motorised Two wheelers with or
without side Car) *To insert ` 50 for Two wheelers, ` 100 for private cars ` 150 for
Commercial Vehicles. three wheelers and taxis or ` 200 for Commercial
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
Vehicles (excluding three wheelers and taxis).
understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes to pay compensation to
IMT. 21. SPECIAL EXCLUSIONS AND COMPULSORY DEDUCTIBLE
any unnamed hirer/driver/any unnamed pillion/sidecar passenger* on the
scale provided below for bodily injury caused by violent, accidental, external (Applicable to all Commercial Vehicles excluding taxis and motorized two
and visible means whilst mounting into/onto and/or dismounting from or wheelers carrying passengers for hire or reward.)
traveling in/on the vehicle insured which independently of any other cause Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby
shall within three calendar months of the occurrence of such injury results in : understood and agreed that
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -6- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
1. Special Exclusions Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this
Policy.
Except in the case of Total Loss of the vehicle insured, the insurer shall
not be liable under Section I of the policy for loss of or damage to lamps * To insert voluntary deductible amount opted by the insured under tariff for
tyres tubes mudguards bonnet side parts bumpers and paint work. Private car/tariff for motorised two wheeler.
2. Compulsory Deductible ** To insert appropriate amount relating to the voluntary deductible opted as
per the provision of tariff for Private car/tariff for motorised two wheelers.
In addition to any amount which the insured may be required to bear
under para (a) above the insured shall also bear under section I of the *** To insert aggregate amount of voluntary deductible opted and the
policy in respect of each and every event (including event giving rise to compulsory deductible applicable to the vehicle insured as in G.R. 40.
total loss/constructive total loss) the first `.............................* of any # To insert policy condition No. 3 of the tariff for private car/tariff for
expenditure(or any less expenditure which may be incurred) for which motorised two wheelers.
provision is made under this policy and/or of any expenditure by the
IMT. 23. COVER FOR LAMPS TYRES/TUBES MUDGUARDS BONNET/
insurer in the exercise of its discretion under Condition No.4 of this policy.
SIDE PARTS BUMPERS HEADLIGHTS AND PAINTWORK OF DAMAGED
If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any amount for PORTION ONLY. (For all Commercial Vehicles)
which the insured is responsible hereunder such amount shall be repaid In consideration of payment of an additional premium of `..........................*,
by the insured to the insurer forthwith. notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby
For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression event shall mean an understood and agreed that subject to conditions (a) (b) and (c) hereunder
event or series of events arising out of one cause in connection with the loss of or damage (excluding theft under any circumstances) to lamps
vehicle insured in respect of which indemnity is provided under this policy. tyres/tubes mudguards bonnet/side parts bumpers headlights and paintwork
of damaged portion only is covered provided the vehicle is also damaged at
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
the same time. Subject to:
* to insert amount as appropriate to the class of vehicle insured as per GR.40
1. Depreciation as per schedule provided in Section 1 of the policy. It is
of the tariff.
further understood and agreed that in respect of paint work for the
IMT. 22. COMPULSORY DEDUCTIBLE damaged portion only (as referred to above) shall also be as per
schedule provided in Section 1 of the policy.
(Applicable to Private Cars, three wheelers rated as private cars, all
motorized two wheelers, taxis, private car type vehicle plying for 2. In addition to any amount which the insured may be required to bear
public/private hire, private type taxi let out on private hire) under para (a) above, the insured shall also bear 50% of the assessed
loss in respect of each and every claim under this Endorsement.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby
understood and agreed that the insured shall bear under Section 1 of the 3. It is also understood that no deductible other than those mentioned in (a)
policy in respect of each and every event (including event giving rise to a and (b) above shall be applicable in respect of a claim which become
total loss/constructive total loss) the first `.............................* (or any less payable under this Endorsement.
expenditure which may be incurred) of any expenditure for which provision Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this
has been made under this policy and/or of any expenditure by the insurer in Policy.
the exercise of his discretion under Condition no ...........** of this policy.
* To insert the sum arrived at as per the provisions of G.R.40. NB.3. of the
If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any amount for which Tariff.
the insured is responsible hereunder such amount shall be repaid by the IMT. 24. ELECTRICAL / ELECTRONIC FITTINGS
insured to the insurer forthwith.
(Items fitted in the vehicle but not included in the manufacturer’s listed
For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression .event. shall mean an selling price of the vehicle. Package Policy only)
event or series of events arising out of one cause in connection with the
In consideration of the payment of additional premium of `............................,
vehicle insured in respect of which indemnity is provided under this policy.
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this understood and agreed that the insurer will indemnify the insured against
Policy. loss of or damage to such electrical and/ or electronic fitting(s) as specified
in the schedule whilst it/these is/are fitted in or on the vehicle insured where
*1. To insert amount as appropriate to the class of vehicle insured as per
such loss or damage is occasioned by any of the perils mentioned in
GR.40 of the tariff.
Section.1 of the policy.
2. In respect of a vehicle rated under the Tariff for Private Car and in respect
The insurer shall, however, not be liable for loss of or damage to such
of a motorised two wheeler not carrying passengers for hire or reward, if any
fitting(s) caused by/as a result of mechanical or electrical breakdown.
deductible in addition to the compulsory deductible provided in this
endorsement is voluntarily borne by the insured, the sum representing the Provided always that the liability of the insurer hereunder shall not exceed
aggregate of the compulsory and the voluntary deductibles is to be inserted. the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the item. Subject otherwise to the
terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
** To insert Condition no 3 in respect of a vehicle rated under Tariff for
Private Car/Two wheelers or Condition no 4 in respect of a vehicle rated IMT. 25. CNG/LPG KIT IN BI-FUEL SYSTEM (Own Damage cover for the kit)
under the Tariff for Commercial Vehicles. In consideration of the payment of premium of `.............................*
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby
IMT. 22. A. VOLUNTARY DEDUCTIBLE
understood and agreed that the insurer will indemnify the insured in terms
(For private cars/motorized two wheelers other than for hire or reward) conditions limitations and exceptions of Section1 of the policy against loss
It is by declared and agreed that the insured having opted a voluntary and/or damage to the CNG/LPG kit fitted in the vehicle insured arising from
deductible of `.......................* an accidental loss or damage to the vehicle insured, subject to the limit of
the Insured’s Declared Value of the CNG/LPG kit specified in the Schedule of
a reduction in premium of `............................** under Section 1 of the policy
the policy.
is hereby allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this
In consideration of the above, it is hereby understood and agreed that the
Policy.
insured shall bear under Section 1 Of the policy in respect of each and every
* To insert sum arrived at in terms of G.R.42.
event (including event giving rise to a total loss/constructive total loss ) the
first `.............................*** (or any less expenditure which may be incurred) IMT. 26. FIRE AND/OR THEFT RISKS ONLY (Not applicable for
of any expenditure for which provision has been made under this policy Miscellaneous and Special Types of vehicles ratable under Class-D and
and/or of any expenditure by the insurer in the exercise of his discretion Motor Trade Policies under Classes-E, F and G of the Commercial
under Condition no ...# of this policy. Vehicles Tariff)
If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any amount for which Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby
the insured is responsible hereunder such amount shall be repaid by the understood and agreed that Section II of the Policy is deemed to be cancelled
insured to the insurer forthwith. and under Section I thereof the insurer shall only be liable to indemnify the
insured against loss or damage by fire explosion self ignition lightning and/or
For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression event shall mean an
burglary housebreaking theft and riot strike malicious damage terrorism
event or series of events arising out of one cause in connection with the
storm tempest flood inundation and earthquake perils whilst the vehicle is
vehicle insured in respect of which indemnity is provided under this policy.
laid up in garage and not in use.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -7- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and exceptions of this
Policy. Policy.
NB. a. In case of Fire Risk only, the words ‘burglary housebreaking theft’ are NB. * To insert the number of employees for which the premium has been paid.
to be deleted. IMT. 30. TRAILERS. (Applicable to Private Cars Only)
NB. b. In case of Theft Risk only, the words ‘fire explosion self ignition In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
lightning riot strike malicious damage terrorism storm tempest flood understood and agreed that the indemnity granted by this policy shall extend
inundation and earthquake perils’ are to be deleted. to apply to the Trailer (Registration No..............). Provided always that
IMT. 27. LIABILITY AND FIRE AND/OR THEFT (Not applicable for *1. the IDV of such Trailer shall be deemed not to exceed ......* *
Miscellaneous and Special Types of vehicles rateable under Class of the
2. the term ‘Trailer’ shall not include its contents or anything contained
Tariff for Commercial Vehicles)
thereon.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby 3. such indemnity shall not apply in respect of death or bodily injury to any
understood and agreed that Section I of the Policy the insurer shall not be person being conveyed by the said Trailer otherwise than by reason of or
liable there under except in respect of loss or damage by fire explosion self in pursuance of a contract of employment.
ignition lightning and/or burglary housebreaking theft and riot strike malicious
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and exceptions of this
damage terrorism storm tempest flood inundation and earthquake perils.
Policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of the
*Delete in the case of Liability to the public Risks only policies.
Policy.
** Insert value of trailer as declared at inception of insurance or any renewal
NB. a. In case of Liability and Fire Risks only, the words ‘burglary
thereof.
housebreaking theft’ are to be deleted.
IMT. 31. RELIABILITY TRIALS AND RALLIES [Private Cars and Motorised
NB. b. In case of Liability and Theft Risks only, the words ‘fire explosion self Two Wheelers]
ignition lightning riot strike malicious damage terrorism storm tempest flood
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
inundation and earthquake perils’ are to be deleted.
understood and agreed that the indemnity granted by this Policy is extended
IMT. 28. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PAID DRIVER AND/OR CONDUCTOR to apply whilst the vehicle insured is engaged in .......... ......*. to be held at
AND/OR CLEANER EMPLOYED IN CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION ....**... on or about the date of ......../........./............ under the auspices of
OF INSURED VEHICLE (For all Classes of vehicles) ....... ..............#
In consideration of an additional premium of ` 50/- notwithstanding anything Provided that:-
to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby understood and agreed that
1. No indemnity shall be granted by this Endorsement to ......... #
the insurer shall indemnify the insured against the insured’s legal liability under
2. This Policy does not cover use for organised racing, pace making or
the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923, the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 or at
speed testing.
Common Law and subsequent amendments of these Acts prior to the date of
this Endorsement in respect of personal injury to any paid driver and/or 3. During the course of the .......* the Insurer shall not be liable in respect of
conductor and/or cleaner whilst engaged in the service of the insured in such death of or bodily injury to any person being carried in or upon or
occupation in connection with the vehicle insured herein and will in addition entering or getting on to or alighting from the vehicle insured at the time
be responsible for all costs and expenses incurred with its written consent. of the occurrence of the event out of which any claim arises.
Provided always that # # It is further understood and agreed that while the vehicle insured is
engaged in ...........* the insured shall bear the first `..............................@
1. This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured in respect of any
(or any less amount for which the claim may be assessed) of each and every
liability in cases where the insured holds or subsequently effects with
claim under Section I of this Policy.
any insurer or group of insurers a Policy of Insurance in respect of
liability as herein defined for insured’s general employees; Provided that if the insurer shall make any payment in exercise of its
discretion under Condition No. 3 of the policy in settlement of any claim and
2. The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents and
such payment includes the amount for which the insured is responsible by
shall comply with all statutory obligations;
reason of this Endorsement the insured shall repay to the insurer forthwith
*3. the insured shall keep record of the name of each paid driver conductor the amount for which the insured is so responsible.
cleaner or persons employed in loading and/or unloading and the amount For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression claim shall mean a claim
of wages and salaries and other earnings paid to such employees and or series of claims arising out of one event.
shall at all times allow the insurer to inspect such records on demand.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this
4. in the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of the insured no Policy.
refund of the premium paid in respect of this Endorsement will be
* To insert the name of the event @ To insert ` 5000/- for Private cars or
allowed.
` 2500/- for motorised two wheelers. For the duration of the event the
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of the deductible under Section 1 of the policy for the purpose of IMT 22 will be the
Policy except so far as necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor amount stated in IMT 22 or the amount stated herein, whichever is higher.
Vehicles Act, 1988.
** To insert the venue of the event.
*In case of Private cars/motorised two wheelers (not used for hire or reward) # To insert the name of the promoters of the event.
delete this para.
# # To delete this entire paragraph in case of Liability Only policies.
IMT. 29. LEGAL LIABILITY TO EMPLOYEES OF THE INSURED OTHER
IMT. 32. ACCIDENTS TO SOLDIERS/SAILORS/AIRMEN EMPOYED AS
THAN PAID DRIVER AND/OR CONDUCTOR AND/ OR CLEANER WHO
DRIVERS
MAY BE TRAVELLING OR DRIVING IN THE EMPLOYER’S CAR {Private
Cars only/ Motorised two wheelers (not for hire or reward)} In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of ` 100/-* it is
hereby understood and agreed that in the event of any Soldier/Sailor/Airman
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium @ ` 25/- per
employed by the insured to drive the vehicle insured being injured or killed
employee insured notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
whilst so employed, this policy will extend to relieve the insured of his
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer will indemnify the
liability to indemnify Ministry of Defence under the respective Regulations.
insured against the insured’s liability at Common Law and Statutory Liability
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 for compensation (including legal costs
of any claimant) for death of or bodily injury to any employee (other than paid *This additional premium is flat and irrespective of period of insurance not
drivers) of the within named insured being carried in or upon or entering in or exceeding 12 months. Any extension of the policy period beyond 12 months
getting on to or alighting from or driving the vehicle insured. will call for payment of further additional premium under this endorsement.
Provided that in the event of an accident whilst the vehicle insured is IMT. 33. LOSS OF ACCESSORIES (Applicable to Motorised Two Wheeler
carrying more than .....* employees of the insured (including the driver) the Policies only)
insured shall repay to the insurer a rateable proportion of the total amount In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
payable by the insurer by the reason of this endorsement in respect of `.............................. it is hereby understood and agreed that as from
accident in connection with such vehicle insured. ....../...../...... notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section I
but subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -8- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
of this Policy the insurer will indemnify the insured in respect of loss of or after receipt thereof which proposal as well as that referred to in this policy shall
damage to accessories the property of the insured, specifically declared by the be the basis of the contract expressed in this endorsement so far as it relates to
insured caused by burglary, housebreaking or theft. the indemnity which is operative whilst the vehicle is let on hire to such Hirer.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of
policy. this Policy.
IMT. 34. USE OF COMMERCIAL TYPE VEHICLES FOR BOTH COMMERCIAL NOTE :
AND PRIVATE PURPOSES (Applicable to Commercial Vehicle Policies only)
For Liability only policies delete the whole of items (1) and (2) and the
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `.............. and paragraph in bold marked with *.
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby
** Insurer to devise a suitable supplementary proposal form.
understood and agreed that
IMT. 36. INDEMNITY TO HIRER- PACKAGE POLICY- NEGLIGENCE OF THE
I The insurer will indemnify the insured against his legal liability under
INSURED OR HIRER.
Common Law and Statutory Liability under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
in respect of death of or bodily injury to any person not being an It is hereby declared and agreed that the company will indemnify any hirer of
employee of the insured nor carried for hire or reward, whilst being the vehicle insured against loss, damage and liability as defined in this Policy
carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from any motor arising in connection with the vehicle insured by reason of the negligence of
vehicle described in the Schedule to this Policy. the within named insured or of any employee of such insured while the
vehicle insured is let on hire.
ii. This Policy shall be operative whilst any vehicle described in the
Schedule hereto is being used by the insured or by any other person with Provided that any such hirer shall as though he/she were the insured observe
the permission of the Insured for social, domestic, or pleasure purposes. fulfill and be subject to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of
this policy in so far as they apply.
Whilst any such vehicle is being so used the insurer will in terms and subject to
the limitations of and for the purposes of Section II of this policy treat as though IMT. 37. LEGAL LIABILITY TO NON-FARE PAYING PASSENGERS OTHER
he were the Insured person using such vehicle provided that such person THAN STATUTORY LIABILITY EXCEPT THE FATAL ACCIDENTS ACT, 1855
(Commercial Vehicles only)
1. is not entitled to indemnity under any other Policy.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `............ and
2. shall as though he were the insured observe, fulfill and be subject to the
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section II-1 (b) and (c)
terms, provisions, conditions and endorsements of this Policy in so far as
it is hereby understood and agreed that the Company will Indemnify the
they apply.
Insured against his legal liability other than liability under the Statute (except
3. has not been refused any Motor Vehicle Insurance or continuance thereof the Fatal Accidents Act 1855 ) in respect of death of or bodily injury to:-
by any insurer.
i Any employee of the within named insured who is not a workman within
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and exceptions of this the meaning of the Workmens Compensation Act Prior to date of this
Policy. endorsement and not being carried for hire or reward.
NOTE: In case of Liability only Policies delete (1) above ii. Any other person not being carried for hire or reward provided that the
person is
IMT. 35. HIRED VEHICLES-DRIVEN BY HIRER* (Applicable to four
wheeled vehicles with carrying capacity not exceeding 6 passengers a. Charterer or representative of the charterer of the truck
and Motorised Two wheelers)
b. Any other person directly connected with the journey in one form or
It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything to the other being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting
contrary contained in this Policy unless the vehicle insured is being driven by from any Motor Vehicle described in the schedule of the policy.
or is for the purpose of being driven by the insured in the charge of the within
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitation of this policy.
named insured or a driver in the insured’s employment, the policy shall only
be operative whilst the vehicle insured is let on hire by the insured to any IMT. 37. A. LEGAL LIABILITY TO NON FARE PAYING PASSENGERS WHO
person (hereinafter called the Hirer) who:- ARE NOT EMPLOYEES OF THE INSURED (Commercial Vehicles only)
i shall have entered into a hire contract with the insured and who prior to In consideration of the paying of an additional premium of `..............................
such hiring shall have satisfactorily completed and signed a and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section II-1 ( c ) it
supplementary proposal form**. is hereby understood and agreed that the company will indemnify the insured
against his legal liability other than liability under statute (except Fatal
ii. shall have satisfied the insured
Accidents Act 1855) in respect of death or bodily injury to any person not
a. that the vehicle insured will only be driven by a duly licensed driver being an employee of the insured and not carried for hire or reward provided
whose license has not been endorsed; that the person is
b. that such driver has not been refused Motor Insurance nor had a. Charterer or representative of the charterer of the truck.
his/her insurance policy been cancelled nor had special conditions
b. Any other person directly connected with the journey in one form or the
imposed nor had increased premium demanded from him/her by
other being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from
reason of claims experience.
vehicle insured described in the SCHEDULE OF THIS POLICY.
It is also understood and agreed that whilst the vehicle insured is let on hire
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy.
to the Hirer the insurer shall not be liable.
IMT. 38. LEGAL LIABILITY TO FARE PAYING PASSENGERS EXCLUDING
1. for any loss, damage or liability due to or arising from theft or conversion
LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS TO EMPLOYEES OF THE INSURED ARISING
by the Hirer unless covered by payment of additional premium @ 1.50%
OUT OF AND IN THE COURSE OF THEIR EMPLOYMENT (Commercial and
on IDV. (Endt. IMT 43 is to be used.)
Motor Trade Vehicles only)
2. To pay the first `............................ of each and every claim in respect of
I. For use with Package Policies.
which indemnity would but for this endorsement have been provided by
Section I of this Policy. In consideration of an additional premium of `............................. and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section II - 1 (c)
If the expenditure incurred by the Insurer shall include the amount for
but subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
which the Insured is responsible hereunder, such amount shall be repaid
limitations of this policy, the insurer will indemnify the insured against
by the insured to the Insurer forthwith. For the purpose of this
liability at Law for compensation (including Law costs of any claimant)
endorsement the expression .Claim. shall mean a claim or series of
for death of or bodily injury to any person other than a person excluded
claims arising out of one cause in respect of the vehicle.
under Section II-1 (B) being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or
If the vehicle is used by the Hirer for carriage of passengers for hire or reward. alighting from the Motor Vehicle.
* For the purposes of this endorsement the insurer will in terms of and Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring whilst the
subject to the provisions contained in item I of Section II of this Policy, treat Motor Vehicle is carrying more than the number of persons mentioned in
the Hirer as a person who is driving the Two wheeler. the Schedule hereto as being the licensed carrying capacity of that
vehicle in addition to the conductor if any then the Insured shall
Further it is agreed that the insured shall forward to the insurer the
repay to the Insurer rateable proportion of the total amount
supplementary proposal referred to above, completed by the Hirer immediately
which would be payable by the Insurer by reason of this
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -9- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
endorsement if not more than the said number of persons were carried in IMT. 39. A. LEGAL LIABILITY UNDER THE WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION
the Motor Vehicle. ACT, 1923 IN RESPECT OF THE CARRIAGE OF MORE THAN SIX
EMPLOYEES (Excluding the Driver) in goods carrying vehicles.
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for the purpose
of this endorsement any three children not exceeding 15 years of age In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
will be reckoned as two persons and any child in arms not exceeding 3 understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary
years of age will be disregarded. Provided also that the provisions of contained herein the company shall indemnify the insured against his legal
condition 3 of the Policy are also applicable to a claim or series of claims liability under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent
under this endorsement. amendments to that Act prior to the date of this endorsement in respect of
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled at the request death of or bodily injury to any person (other than the paid driver) exceeding
of the insured no refund of premium paid in respect of this endorsement six in number whilst being carried in the Motor vehicle and will in addition be
will be allowed. responsible for all costs and expenses incurred with its written consent.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of Provided always that :
this Policy. 1. The Company shall not be liable by virtue of this Endorsement to
II.For use with Liability only Policy. indemnify the insured in respect of any liability in cases where the
insured holds or subsequently effects with any insurance company or
In consideration of an additional premium of `.............................. and
group of Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect of liability as
subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of
herein defined for his general employees and where the Insured has not
this Policy, the insurer will indemnify the insured against liability at Law
obtained special permission from the registration authorities for carriage
for compensation (including Law Costs of any claimant) for death of or
of more than six such employees.
bodily injury to any person other than a person excluded under general
exception being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting 2. The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents and
from the Motor Vehicle. shall comply with all statutory obligations.
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring whilst the 3. The insured shall keep a record of the name of each person employed in
Motor Vehicle is carrying more than the number of persons mentioned in connection with the loading and unloading of the vehicles and the
the Schedule hereto as being the licensed carrying capacity of that amount of wages salary and other earnings paid to such employees and
vehicle in addition to the conductor if any then the insured shall repay to shall at all times allow the Insurer to inspect such record.
the Insurer rateable proportion of the total amount which would be
4. In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of the insured no
payable by the Insurer by reason of this endorsement if not more than
refund of the premium paid in respect of this Endorsement will be
the said number of persons were carried in the Motor Vehicle.
allowed.
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for the purpose
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions, conditions and limitations of
of this endorsement any 3 children not exceeding 15 years of age will be
this Policy.
reckoned as two persons and any children in arms not exceeding 3 years
of age will be disregarded. IMT. 40. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PAID DRIVER AND/OR CONDUCTOR
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled at the request AND/OR CLEANER EMPLOYED IN CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION
of the insured no refund of premium paid in respect of this endorsement OF MOTOR VEHICLE. (For buses, taxis and motorized three/four
will be allowed. wheelers under commercial vehicles tariff)
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
this Policy. understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary the insurer shall indemnify insured against his legal liability under
IMT. 39. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN CONNECTION
the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent amendments of
WITH THE OPERATION AND/OR MAINTAINING AND/OR LOADING
that Act prior to the date of this endorsement, the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
AND/OR UNLOADING OF MOTOR VEHICLES (for Goods Vehicle)
or at Common Law in respect of personal injury to any paid driver and/or
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of *...... it is hereby conductor and/or cleaner whilst engaged in the service of the insured in such
understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained herein to the occupation in connection with the vehicle insured and will in addition be
contrary the insurer shall indemnify the insured against his legal liability responsible for all costs and expenses incurred with its written consent.
under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent amendments
The premium to be calculated and paid while taking insurance of the vehicle
of that Act prior to the date of this Endorsement, the Fatal Accidents Act,
concurred at the rate of ` 50/- per driver and/or conductor and/or cleaner.
1855 or at Common Law in respect of personal injury to any paid driver (or
cleaner or conductor or person employed in loading/or unloading but in any Provided always that:-
case not exceeding seven in number including driver and cleaner) whilst
1. This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured in respect of any
engaged in the service of the insured in such occupation in connection with
liability in cases where the insured holds or subsequently effects with
the .... and not exceeding seven in number and will in addition be responsible
any insurer or Group of Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect of
for all costs and expenses incurred with its written consent.
liability as herein defined for his general employees.
Provided always that :
2. The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents and
1. This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured in respect of any shall comply with all statutory obligations.
liability in cases where the insured holds or subsequently effects with
3. The insured shall keep a record of the name of each driver cleaner
any insurer or Group of Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect of
conductor or person employed in loading and/or unloading and the
liability as herein defined for his general employees.
amount of wages salary and other earnings paid to such employees and
2. The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents and
shall at all times allow the insurer to inspect such record.
shall comply with all statutory obligations.
4. In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of the insured no
3. The insured shall keep a record of the name of each driver cleaner
refund of the premium paid in respect of this Endorsement will be
conductor or person employed in loading and/or unloading and the
allowed. Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
amount of wages salary and other earnings paid to such employees and
limitations of this Policy except so far as necessary to meet the
shall at times allow the insurer to inspect such record.
requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
4. In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of the insured no
IMT. 41. MOTOR TRADE POLICY - CLASS ‘F’-ROAD RISK ONLY
refund of the premium paid in respect of this Endorsement will be
allowed. It is hereby declared and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained
herein to the contrary that in respect of any new vehicle and/or chassis
The premium to be calculated at the rate of ` 25/- per driver and/or cleaner or
bearing a Trade Certificate Number specified in the Schedule of the policy,
conductor and/or person employed in loading and/or unloading but not
the Geographical Area for the purpose of this Policy shall be as defined
exceeding the number permitted by the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 including
hereunder and not as stated in the Schedule hereto.
driver and cleaner.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this Geographical Area
Policy except so far as necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Under Section II-(i) .. INDIA
Vehicles Act, 1988.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -10- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Under all other Sections -Within a radius of ...* kilometers from the insured’s (For use with ‘Liability Only’ Policy)
address as stated in the Schedule hereto.
In consideration of an additional premium of `............................. and subject
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this Policy the
Policy. insurer will indemnify the insured against liability at law for compensation
* to insert ‘80’ or ‘120’, as opted for by insured and premium paid accordingly. (including legal costs of any claimant) for death of or bodily injury to any
person other than a person excluded under general exception being carried in
IMT. 42. PRIVATE CARRIERS (Goods Carrying Commercial Vehicles Only)
or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle insured.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring whilst the vehicle
understood and agreed that the insurer shall not be liable for any loss or
insured is carrying more than the number of persons mentioned in the
damage to the vehicle insured and/or for any third party liability in respect
Schedule hereto as being the licensed carrying capacity of that vehicle in
thereof if at the time of accident the vehicle insured under this policy is
addition to the conductor if any then the insured shall repay to the insurer
carrying goods not belonging to the insured Subject otherwise to the terms
ratable proportion of the total amount which would be payable by the insurer
conditions limitations and exceptions of this policy.
by reason of this endorsement if not more than the said number of persons
Article II NOTE : For Liability only Policies delete the words “for any loss or were carried in the vehicle insured.
damage to the vehicle insured and/or”
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for the purpose of
IMT. 43. THEFT AND CONVERSION RISK
this endorsement any 3 children not exceeding 15 years of age will be
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby reckoned as two persons and any children in arms not exceeding 3 years of
understood and agreed in this Policy in consideration of the payment of age will be disregarded.
additional premium @ 1.50% of IDV, Clause ii (b) (1) of Endorsement IMT-35
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled at the request of the
is hereby deemed to be deleted.
insured no refund of premium paid in respect of this endorsement will be allowed.
It is further understood and agreed that the indemnity in respect of Theft
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy.
and/or Conversion by the hirer is applicable only in case of Theft and/or
Conversion of the entire vehicle. IMT. 47. MOBILE CRANES/DRILLING RIGS/MOBILE PLANTS/
EXCAVATORS/NAVVIES/SHOVELS/GRABS/RIPPERS.
It is further understood and agreed that No Claim Bonus will not be
applicable to the additional premium charged hereunder. It is hereby declared and agreed notwithstanding anything to the contrary
IMT. 44. INDEMNITY TO HIRER - PACKAGE POLICY - NEGLIGENCE OF contained in this Policy that in respect of the vehicle insured * the Insurer
THE OWNER OR HIRER shall be under no liability
It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of payment of an a. Under Section I of this Policy in respect of loss or damage resulting from
additional premium of `........ the Insurer will indemnify any hirer of the overturning arising out of the operation as a tool of such vehicle or of
Vehicle insured against loss, damage and liability as defined in this Policy plant forming part of such vehicle or attached thereto except for loss or
arising in connection with the Vehicle insured while let on hire. damage arising directly from fire, explosion, self ignition or lightning or
burglary housebreaking or theft.
Provided that any such hirer shall as though he/she were the insured observe
fulfill and be subject to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of b. Under Section II except so far as is necessary to meet the requirements
this policy in so far as they apply. of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, in respect of liability incurred by the
insured arising out of the operation as a tool of such vehicle or of plant
IMT. 45. INDEMNITY TO HIRER - LIABILITY ONLY POLICY ‘NEGLIGENCE
forming part of such vehicle or attached thereto.
OF THE OWNER OR HIRER’ NEGLIGENCE OF THE HIRER
It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of payment of an N. B.: Omit paragraph (a) for:-
additional premium of `....... the Insurer will indemnify any hirer of the Motor 1. Liability only Policies.
Vehicle against liability as defined in this Policy arising in connection with the
2. Package Policies where an additional premium has been paid for
Motor Vehicle while let on hire.
inclusion of damage by overturning.
Provided that any such hirer shall as though he were the Insured observe
NOTE: * Insert make, number or some other means of identification.
fulfill and be subject to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of
this Policy in so far as they apply. Where a premium reduction is allowed for exclusion of damage when in use
IMT. 46. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PASSENGERS EXCLUDING LIABILITY FOR as a tool of trade omit from paragraph (a) (the words resulting from
ACCIDENTS TO EMPLOYEES OF THE INSURED ARISING OUT OF AND IN “overturning” and “except for loss” or “theft”.
COURSE OF THEIR EMPLOYMENT (Applicable to Ambulance/Hearses IMT. 48. AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY VEHICLES AND OTHER
under class D of Commercial vehicles and to Motor Trade vehicles) MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLES WITH TRAILERS ATTACHED-EXTENDED
In consideration of an additional premium of `.............................. and COVER
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section II-I(c) but subject It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of an additional
otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy the premium of `..............................., the indemnity provided by this Policy shall
insurer will indemnify the insured against liability at Law for compensation apply in respect of any trailer (including Agricultural Implements such as
(including legal costs of any claimant) for death of or bodily injury to any Ploughs, Harrows and the like) described in the under noted Schedule of
person other than a person excluded under Section II - I (B) being carried in or trailers as though it were a vehicle described in the Schedule and had set
upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle insured. against it in the Schedule the value set against it in the under noted Schedule
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring whilst the vehicle of trailers. Provided that the Insurer shall be under no liability under Section I
insured is carrying more than the number of persons mentioned in the of the Policy in respect of breakage of any part of the agricultural trailer or
Schedule hereto as being the licensed carrying capacity of that vehicle in implements caused by ground obstructions.
addition to the conductor if any then the insured shall repay to the insurer
Schedule of Trailers
ratable proportion of the total amount which would be payable by the insurer
by reason of this endorsement if not more than the said number of persons * Description Insured’s Declared value (IDV)
were carried in the vehicle insured. * Insert make, number or some other means of identification. Threshing
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for the purpose of Machines, Drums, Bailing Machines, Trusses and Tiers must be identified as such.
this endorsement any three children not exceeding 15 years of age will be Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of this Policy.
reckoned as two persons and any child in arms not exceeding 3 years of age
NOTE : In the case of Liability only Policies, the Endorsement must be suitably
will be disregarded.
amended.
Provided also that the provisions of condition 3 of the policy are also
IMT. 49. EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO THE PUBLIC WORKING RISK (Except
applicable to a claim or series of claims under this endorsement.
as required by the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988)
Provided further that in the event of policy being cancelled at the request of
It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is necessary to meet the
the insured no refund of premium paid in respect of this endorsement will be
requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988,the Insurer shall be under no liability
allowed.
under Section II of this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the Insured arising
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this out of the operation as a tool of the Motor Vehicle or of plant forming part of the
Policy. Motor Vehicle or attached thereto.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -11- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
IMT. 50. CINEMA FILM RECORDING AND PUBLICITY VANS 2. Damage to property resulting from the manufacture construction
alteration repair or treatment of such property by the insured.
It is hereby understood and agreed that not withstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Policy, the insurer shall be under no liability in 3. Death injury or damage caused by or through property on which the
respect of loss or damage to cinematic photographic or sound equipment insured has carried out any process of manufacture, construction
costumes or any other technical property fixtures and fittings on the Motor alteration or repair or treatment.
Vehicle, unless they are firmly and permanently fixed to the body of the
It is further understood and agreed that except so far as is necessary to meet
vehicle and are not detachable from time to time.
the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, the insurer shall be under
IMT. 51. MOBILE SHOPS/CANTEENS AND MOBILE SURGERIES/ no liability under Section II of this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the
DISPENSARIES insured arising out of the explosion of any vessel under pressure being part
of plant attached to or forming part of the vehicle insured.
It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Policy the insurer shall be under no liability in IMT. 56. TRAILERS (Road Transit Only)
respect of
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby
*a. Loss of or damage to ..... ** on the motor vehicle. understood and agreed that insurance by Section I and II of this Policy shall
extend to the Motor Vehicle (mechanically propelled or otherwise) attached
b. Death of or bodily injury to or illness of any person caused by or through
to the Motor Vehicle for the purpose of being towed
or in connection with or arising from
Provided always that
i. Poisoning of any kind or foreign or deleterious matter in food or drink
1. The insurer shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of damage to
ii. Anything harmful in the condition of any goods supplied at or from the
property conveyed by the towed vehicle.
motor vehicle or the defective condition of the container of such goods
2. The insurer shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of accident loss
iii. Anything harmful in the condition of any goods supplied at or from
damage and/or liability caused sustained or incurred whilst the vehicle
the motor vehicle or defective in any treatment given at or from the
insured is towing a greater number of vehicles than is permitted by law.
motor vehicle
IMT. 57. MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS (Motor Trade Only)
Notes:-
It is hereby declared and agreed that Item 5 in the Schedule to this Policy is
*For Liability only Policies omit proviso (a)
deemed to have been deleted and the following substituted there for :
**1. In the case of “Mobile Shops and Canteens” insert the words “Utensils
The Motor Vehicle : Any Motorised Two Wheeler (including sidecar attached
or stock-in-trade” and omit (iii)
thereto) the property of the insured or insured’s custody or control whilst
2. In the case of “Mobile Surgeries/Dispensaries” insert the words bearing Trade Certificate No...........
“Surgical instruments medical appliances or supplies”.
It is further declared and agreed that the words “Motor Vehicle” Wherever
IMT. 52. EXCLUSION OF DAMAGE WHILE IN USE AS A TOOL OF TRADE they appear are deemed to have been deleted and substituted by the words
It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is necessary to meet ‘Motorised Two Wheeler’..
the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 the insurer shall be under Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of
no liability under Section II of this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the this Policy.
insured arising out of the operation as a tool of the motor vehicle or of plant
IMT. 58. LOAN OR HIRE OF MOTOR CARS, MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS,
forming part of the vehicle insured or attached thereto.
MOTOR VEHICLES TO CUSTOMERS BY MOTOR DEALERS (Motor Trade Only)
IMT. 53. SPECIFIED ATTACHMENTS (Special Type Vehicles)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby
It is hereby declared and agreed that while any attachment in the under understood and agreed that the Motor Car(s), Motorised Two wheelers, Motor
noted .Schedule of attachments. is attached to the Motor Vehicle or is Vehicle(s) described in the Schedule hereto may be let out on loan or hire to
detached and out of use the indemnity provided by this Policy shall apply in insured’s customers when their vehicle(s) is/are under repair with the insured.
respect of any such attachment as though it were the Motor Vehicle and had
Provided that the insured agrees to record in a register for the purposes of
set against it in the Schedule the value set against it in the under noted
this policy the date of loan or hire of such vehicle(s), its Make and Registered
.Schedule of Attachments
Number (or Chassis Number if the loaned/hired vehicle itself is not
Schedule of Trailers registered) and the duration of the loan or hire and to submit to the insurer
*Description Insured’s Declared value (IDV) within one month of the expiry of each period of insurance a statement of the
total number of days each loaned/hired vehicle was in use.
*Insert make, number or some other means of identification.
Provided also that the premium for this Policy shall be subject to adjustment
NOTE: In the case of pedestrian controlled tractors insert in ‘Description’ in
on expiry of each period of insurance.
the Schedule of Attachments “any standard attachment of the ... Tractor
supplied by the makers”. Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of
this Policy.
IMT. 54. MOBILE PLANT (Inclusion of Liability to the Public Working
Risk Where Tool of Trade is used only for work performed in or upon the IMT. 59. PRIVATE USE OF VEHICLE BY MEMBER/DIRECTOR/EMPLOYEE
Vehicle or Trailer.) OF THE INSURED (Motor Trade only)
It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is necessary to meet In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `............. and
the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, the Insurer shall be under notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary it is hereby understood
no liability under Section II of this Policy in respect of liability arising out of:- and agreed that this Policy shall be operative whilst the vehicle insured is being
used by the insured or with the permission of the insured by a Member Director
1. The explosion of any vessel under pressure being part of plant attached
or employee of the insured for social domestic or pleasure purposes.
to or forming part of the Motor Vehicle.
Whilst the vehicle insured is being so used the insurer will in terms of and
2. The operation other than in or upon the Motor Vehicle forming part of or
subject to the limitations of and for the purpose of Section II of this policy
attached to
treat as though he were the insured person using the vehicle insured
3. The Motor Vehicle. provided that such person :
IMT. 55. MOBILE PLANT INCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO THE PUBLIC 1. Is not entitled to indemnity under any other policy;
WORKING RISK (All Other Cases)
2. Shall as though he/she were the insured observe fulfill and be subject to
It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything to the the terms provisions conditions and endorsements of this policy in so far
contrary contained in this Policy the insurer shall be under no liability under as they apply;
Section II in respect of
3. Has not been refused any Motor Vehicle Insurance or continuance
1. Death injury or damage caused by or resulting from thereof by any insurer.
a. Subsidence flooding or water pollution. Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this
Policy.
b. Damage to pipes or cables arising out of the operation as a tool of the
vehicle insured or of any plant forming part of vehicle insured or
attached thereto.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -12- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
IMT. 60. DEMONSTRATION-DRIVING EXTENSION (Applicable to Motor Trade *Insured can opt for a Voluntary Deductible specifically for this add-on,
Policies Only) which will be over and above the deductible applied under the basic Policy. In
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `............. and such a case, the discount will be provided in the premium calculated for this
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is hereby add-on, as indicated in the attached grid-“Voluntary Deductible for Zero
understood and agreed that the policy shall be operative whilst the vehicles Depreciation”.
are being driven for the purpose of demonstration by person(s) not in the Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of this
employment of the insured provided he/she/they is/are driving with the Policy.
insured’s permission and is/are accompanied by the insured or by any
Consumable Items
person(s) in the insured’s employment.
UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0216V01200910
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `.......................
IMT. 61. TUITION -Driving Extension
by the Insured. It is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding
(Applicable only to Motor Trade Policies issued on named driver basis.) anything to the the Insured. It is hereby agreed and declared that
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `.............................. notwithstanding anything to the to cover expenses Incurred by the Insured
and notwithstanding anything to the contrary it is hereby understood and agreed on the Consumable Items in the event of damage to the vehicle insured
that the policy shall be operative whilst the vehicles insured are being used for and/or to its accessories, arising out of any peril as covered under the policy.
purpose of demonstration or tuition by any other person, provided he/she is For the purpose of this endorsement, Consumable Items shall mean those
driving with the insured’s permission and is accompanied by a named driver articles or substances which have specific uses and when applied to their
mentioned in the policy Schedule. respective uses are either consumed totally or are rendered unit for
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy. continuous and permanent use.
IMT. 62. DELETION OF 50% LIMITATION CLAUSE IN RESPECT OF Such Consumable Items will include nut and bolt, screw, washers, grease,
DAMAGE TO TYRES (Applicable to Motor Trade Road Transit Risks lubricants clip, ac gas, bearings, distilled water, engine oil, oil filter, fuel filter,
Policies only) break oil and the like.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `.............................. Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of this Policy.
it is hereby understood and agreed that the words ...when the liability of the Garage Cash
Insurer is limited to 50% of the cost of the replacement ..... are hereby deleted UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0256V01200910
from proviso (b) of Section I (1) of the policy.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `.........................
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of the policy. by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything
IMT. 63. Restriction of Cover to Liability Risks only to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to:
(Motor Trade Internal Risks Policy) a. Pay a daily allowance, as stated in the schedule, to the Insured for each
and every completed day for which the Insured’s vehicle is under repair
It is hereby understood and agreed that
in a garage, due to loss/damage to the vehicle on account of a peril
1. Section I and II(2)(i) and the word .other. in Section II (2)(ii) of this Policy
covered under the Policy, subject to the maximum number of days as
in the Schedule to this Policy are deemed to be cancelled and
specified in the schedule
2. The Insurer shall not be liable in respect of damage to the Motor Vehicle
b. Pay the lump-sum amount as stated in the schedule, in the event of Total
or its accessories.
loss/Constructive Total Loss of the Insured’s vehicle
IMT. 64. OPEN-AIR CAR PARKS (Motor Trade Internal Risks Only)
Provided always that:
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium, it is hereby
1. Such claim is admitted by the Company under Section I -“Loss or
understood and agreed that for the purpose of this Policy the Premises shall be
Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy
deemed to include the car park at ......* superficial area not exceeding .....**
2. The insured vehicle has been under repair for a minimum number of
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
days, as stated in the schedule, post which the claim under this add-on
* To insert location will be payable from the day such vehicle was delivered to the garage
** To insert appropriate area 3. In case of theft of the vehicle, the vehicle is not recovered within 90 days
IMT. 65. WORK AWAY FROM PREMISES (Motor Trade Internal Risks Only) from the day of the theft.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby 4. Not more than three claims will be payable under this add-on
understood and agreed that the premises are deemed to include any place at 5. Claim under this add-on is intimated to the Company within 24 hours of
which the insured is performing work not being premises under the control of loss or damage
the insured provided that the insurer shall not be liable in respect of injury or
6. Claim under this add-on is serviced in the authorized garages of the
damage resulting from the driving of the vehicle insured in a public place in
Company
INDIA within the meaning of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
7. The duration for which the Insured’s vehicle is under repair in a garage
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
due to loss/damage to the vehicle, and for which the Company will be
Add-on for Private Car Package Insurance Policy liable for claim in respect of this add-on will be reckoned from the day
Zero Depreciation after the insured vehicle is delivered to the Garage till the day
immediately preceding the date of discharge or date of invoice for such
UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0368V01200910
repair as prepared by the garage, whichever is earlier
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of Rs___________
a. The company will not be liable for any further payment under this
by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding
add-on for the specific accidental loss or damage once the vehicle is
anything to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby
removed from the garage
undertakes to deduct no amounts for depreciation in case of parts replaced
on account of damage to the vehicle insured and/or to its accessories, 8. Company will not be liable for any delays on account of-
arising out of any peril as covered under the Policy. a. Delay of more than 24 hours, in delivering insured vehicle to the
Provided always that garage from the time of occurrence of accidental damage or loss
b. Non-availability of spare parts required for repair
1. such claim has been admitted by the Company under Section I - “Loss or
Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy, Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and limitations of the Policy.
2. this add-on shall not be applicable in the event of Total Loss/ Constructive NCB Protect
Total Loss of the vehicle insured under the Policy, UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0294V01200910
3. the Insured shall be liable for the Voluntary Deductible* amount, as opted Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Policy and in
by the Insured for this add-on, for each and every claim payable under consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `.........................
this add-on, by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that the Insured will be
entitled to No Claims Bonus as per the following Table 1, under Section I-
“Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -13- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
2. ‘Engine Parts’ would mean all internal lubricated parts of the engine
NCB Benefit in the event of XX claims
including pistons, pins and rigs, all pulleys camshaft, followers, cam
in the current policy period
bearings, connecting rods and bearings, crankshaft and main bearings,
Number of prior claim dipstick and tube, eccentric shaft, engine heads and engine blocks,
XX = 0 XX = 1 XX = 2 XX = 3
free policy years engine mounts and cushions, engine torque strut, flywheel and flywheel
ring gear, harmonic balancer, intake and exhaust manifolds, oil pan, oil
0 20% 0% 0% 0% pumps, push rods, valves, springs, guides, seats, and lifters, rocker arms,
shafts, and bushings, timing covers, timing gears, chain, belt tensioners,
1 25% 20% 0% 0% retainers, vacuum pump, valve covers, and water pumps. fuel injection
pump (for diesel engines only) and fuel heater (for diesel engines only).
2 35% 25% 20% 0%
3. ‘Differential Parts’ would mean all internally lubricated parts contained
within the differential housing including axle shafts, constant velocity
3 45% 35% 25% 20%
joints, bearings, final drive housing, four wheel drive hubs and bearings,
retainers, transaxle housing and universal joints, drive shafts, hub
4 and above 50% 45% 35% 25%
bearings and supports
Plan 2- Two Step Down 4. ‘Gear Box Parts’ would mean all internally lubricated parts contained
within the transmission case including cooler, cooler lines, filer tubes and
NCB Benefit in the event of XX claims dipsticks, internal linkage, mounts, oil pans, torque convertor, transfer
in the current policy period case, transmission and transfer case, transmission park base assembly,
vacuum modulator, gear shafts, and gear box.
Number of prior claim
XX = 0 XX = 1 XX = 2 XX = 3 5. In case of an accident, payment under this add-on would be made only
free policy years
when there is evidence of under carriage damage to Engine Parts and/or
0 20% 0% 0% 0% Gear Box Parts and/or Differential Parts leading to oil leakage and
resulting into damage to covered parts as mentioned above.
1 25% 0% 0% 0% 6. The Company would not be liable for:
a) Any claims where the subject matter of claims is covered under any
2 35% 20% 0% 0%
other type of insurance policy with any other insurer or
manufacturer’s warranty including recall campaign or under any
3 45% 25% 20% 0%
other such packages at the same time.
4 and above 50% 35% 25% 20% b) Cost of lubricants in case of loss due to leakage and flushing of
consumables.
Insured shall not be entitled to any No Claim Bonus, if more than three claims c) Any claim which is intimated to the Company after 30 days of the
are lodged by the Insured during the same Policy Period under Section I - happening of loss or damage.
“Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy.
d) Any claim where the repair has been carried out without prior
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of this approval from the Company
Policy.
e) Any claims related to loss or damage due to wear and tear
Return to Invoice
Road Side Assistance
UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0329V01200910
UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0027V01201213
In consideration of payment of an additional premium as specified and shown
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of Rs___________ by
in the Schedule, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding
the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything
anything to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby
to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to
undertakes to pay the Sum Insured under this add-on, determined as the
provide the Insured, upon his request, with a maximum of four claims related
difference between the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the insured vehicle
to any one or more of the following emergency assistance services during
and the total actual expenses incurred towards acquisition of a new vehicle
the Policy Period, in any area where the Company has its presence through
of similar make and model to the insured, as specified in the on-road price
its network garages or through the network of the service provider:
listed by the manufacturer/Dealer upon the occurrence of Total Loss/
Constructive Total Loss as defined in the Policy 1. Towing on breakdown/accident: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle
being immobilized or rendered unfit for the purpose of driving on the road,
Provided always that
the Company would provide appropriate towing services to the nearest
On-road price means the actual expense incurred towards acquisition of a garage (within a radius of 50 kms from the location of the
new vehicle and includes the value of factory fitted accessories or car dealer breakdown/accident), provided always that any charges for a distance
accessories at the time of purchase. On road price will also include any beyond the one mentioned herein shall be borne by the Insured.
amount paid towards registration of the insured Vehicle, road tax and cost of
2. Breakdown support over phone: In the event of minor mechanical
insuring the vehicle.
errors/faults/non-functioning of the Insured’s vehicle or any part thereof,
In case of obsolete models, the last selling price of the vehicle will be the Company would provide the Insured with telephonic assistance to
considered to pay the Sum Insured under this add-on come up with solutions for such minor mechanical errors/faults/non-
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of this functioning of the Insured’s vehicle.
Policy. 3. Arrangement/Supply of fuel: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being
Engine Protect Plus immobilized due to emptying of fuel tank, the Company would arrange for
UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0015V01201213 supply of up to five liters of fuel, at the location of the breakdown.
Provided always that all labor costs and conveyance costs would be
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of Rs___________ by
borne by the Company and all expenses on fuel would be borne by the
the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything
Insured.
to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to
indemnify the Insured for expenses incurred in repair or replacement due to 4. Emptying of fuel tank: In the event of the fuel tank of the Insured’s
consequential damages arising out of water ingression/leakage of lubricating vehicle being filled with a wrong type of fuel, the Company would
oil leading to loss or damage to: arrange for emptying of fuel tank with the help of appropriate technicians
and if required, arrange for towing the Insured’s vehicle to nearest garage
• Engine Parts
for the purpose of emptying the fuel tank, provided always that all
• Differential Parts charges towards the towing of the vehicle would be borne by the
• Gear Box Parts Insured.
of the Insured’s vehicle. Provided always that: 5. Arrangement of keys: In the event of the Insured losing the keys of the
Insured’s vehicle, the Company would arrange for pick up and delivery of the
1. For the purpose of this add-on, ‘Consequential Damage’ would mean “the
spare keys of the Insured’s vehicle to the place where the Insured’s vehicle
damage more specifically expressed hereinabove caused to an insured
vehicle not arising directly from an insured peril but as a direct
consequence to the same”.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -14- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
is located. Alternatively, the Company would provide the service of 14.Taxi Benefits: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being immobilized
unlocking the Insured’s vehicle with the help of vehicle technicians at the due to an accident/breakdown, the Company shall provide free travel of
location of the Insured’s vehicle. Provided always that all labour and the occupants of the Insured vehicles upto a distance of 50 kilometers.
conveyance costs would be borne by the Company and the Insured Provided always that:
would be required to submit an identity proof to prove his ownership of
a. The event has occurred 50kms away from the Insured’s place of
the Insured’s vehicle, before availing such service. Provided always that
residence as declared by the Insured at the time of policy issuance.
this service would be provided only within a range of 100 kms from the
b. Any charges for a distance beyond the covered distance as stated
location where the loss has occurred.
above shall be borne by the Insured.
6. Battery jump start: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being
In the unlikely event of the Company being unable to arrange for this
immobilized due to a run down battery, the Company would arrange for a
service, the Company may request the Insured to arrange for the taxi on
vehicle technician to jump start the Insured’s vehicle with appropriate
his own and submit the bill for the pre-authorized amount for
means. Provided always that any cost of charging/replacement of battery
reimbursement to the Company.
would be borne by the Insured and all labour and conveyance costs,
towards battery jump start assistance, would be borne by the Company. 15. Accommodation Benefits: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being
immobilized due to a an accident/breakdown, the Company shall provide
7. Message Relay: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle getting immobilized
occupants of the Insured vehicle with a hotel accommodation for one day, for
as a result of an accident and/or breakdown, the Company would
a maximum of ` 5000. Provided always that:
arrange to send urgent message to the specified persons, as requested
by the Insured, through available means of communication. a. The breakdown/accident has taken place at least 100 kms away
from the Insured’s place of residence, as declared by the Insured at
8. Flat Tyre: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being immobilized due to a
the time of Policy issuance.
flat tyre, the Company would assist the Insured by:
b. The required time of repair of the Insured vehicle exceeds 12 hours
a. organizing for a vehicle technician to replace the flat tyre with the
from the time of the accident/breakdown.
spare stepney tyre of the vehicle at the location of breakdown or in
the event of repairs not being possible at the place of breakdown c. The number of individuals seated in the Insured vehicle is not more
than the maximum seating capacity of the Insured vehicle.
b. by arranging to take the flat tyre to the nearest place of repair and
delivering the tyre back to the place of breakdown & attaching it to In the unlikely event of Company being unable to arrange for this service, the
the Insured’s vehicle. Company may request the Insured to arrange for accommodation on his own
and submit the bill for the pre-authorized amount for reimbursement to the
Provided always that any expenses on material/spare parts and any
Company.
other incidental costs, if required while carrying out the repairs, would
be borne by the Insured and the expenses on labour cost and The Company would not be liable for:
conveyance cost, in relation to point (a) and (b) above, would be borne 1. providing the abovementioned services under conditions of earthquake,
by the Company. war, invasion, rebellion, revolt, riot, civil commotion, civil war,
9. Minor Repairs: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being immobilized exceptional adverse weather conditions, acts of terrorism, nuclear
due to a minor mechanical/electrical fault, the Company would assist the fission, strike, act(s) of government(s)/government agencies/judicial/
Insured by sending a vehicle technician to the location of breakdown to quasi-judicial authorities.
carry out the Minor Repairs. Provided always that 2. any claims where the Insured’s vehicle is being used for the purpose of
a. The expenses on labour cost and conveyance cost would be borne racing, rallying, motor-sports, or is not being used/driven in accordance
by the Company with applicable laws and regulations.
b. Minor Repairs, for the purpose of this add-on, would be defined as 3. any claim where the Insured’s vehicle can be safely transferred on its
repairs which can be carried out at the location of breakdown/ own power to the nearest garage/workshop.
accident, requiring no spares and less than 45 minutes of labour 4. any claims triggered by theft; any kind of consequential losses.
time.
5. any loss which is covered under any other insurance policy or
10. Arrangement of rental vehicle: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle manufacturer’s warranty or recall campaign or under any other such
being immobilized due to a breakdown/accident, the Company would packages at the same time.
facilitate arrangement for alternative mode of conveyance, from the
6. any expenses for supply or replacement of parts/consumables.
place of breakdown /accident, to the destination, as desired by the
Insured at the time of breakdown/accident. The Company would intimate 7. any loss/damage caused to the Insured’s vehicle when it is being
the Insured of all charges payable to the rental vehicle and all such used/driven against the recommendations of the owner’s/manufacturer’s
charges would be borne by the Insured. manual.
11. Arrangement of Accommodation: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle 8. any claims where services have been availed of without the prior consent
being immobilized due to a breakdown/accident, the Company would of the Company.
facilitate arrangement for hotel accommodation in a place near the place Key Protect
of breakdown/accident. The Company would intimate the Insured of all UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0019V01201213
charges payable for such accommodation and all such charges would be
borne by the Insured. consideration of payment of an additional premium of Rs___________ by
the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything
12. Referring a Legal Advisor: In the event of an accident involving the
to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to
Insured’s vehicle as a result of which the Insured requires the services of
pay upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, to indemnify the Insured for
a legal advisor, the Company would arrange for the Insured the
the cost incurred towards repairing/replacing the car keys and/or locks and/
telephonic contact details of an appropriate legal advisor belonging to an
or lockset, including the locksmith charges, upon the occurrence of
area as requested by the Insured. Provided always that:
theft/burglary/loss of or damage to the keys and/or lock and/or the lockset of
i. the breakdown/accident has taken place atleast 50 kms away from the Insured’s vehicle, during the Policy Period.
the Insured’s place of residence, as per the address declared by the
Provided always that
Insured at the time of Policy issuance
1. Not more than two claims would be payable under this add-on for a
ii. the Company would intimate the Insured of all charges payable for
Policy Period
the services of such legal advisor and all such charges would be
borne by the Insured. 2. A claim deductible of 1% of the admissible claim amount would apply for
each claim, subject to a minimum of Rs.250.
13. Referring a Hospital: In the event of an accident involving the Insured’s
vehicle as a result of which the Insured and/or any of the travelling 3. A claim resulting from burglary or theft is supported by a First Information
passengers requires medical care, the Company would arrange for the Report (FIR) with the Police
Insured the telephonic contact details of an appropriate hospital near the 4. The replaced keys/lock/lockset should be of same nature and kind as the
location of accident. Provided always that the breakdown/accident has one for which the claim is being made
taken place atleast 50 kms away from the Insured’s place of residence,
5. Any loss or damage to the keys/lock/lockset is reported to the Company
as per the address declared by the Insured at the time of Policy issuance.
within 30 days of such loss or damage
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -15- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
6. Replacement of key(s) only would be done only for broken or damaged 5. A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with the Police for such loss
keys. In case of theft of key(s), entire set comprising of key, lock and
6. The Company would not be liable for:
lockset would be replaced.
a. Any loss in open top or convertible cars unless the belongings are kept
7. The Company would not be liable for:
in the locked boot
a. Any claim within the first 5 days of the happening of loss. However, in
b. Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank drafts, credit or debit
cases related to theft/burglary, this exclusion would not be applicable
cards, jewellery, gems, stones, contact lens, glasses, travel tickets,
b. Any damage/loss to keys/lock/lockset due to malicious activities, any watches, valuables, manuscripts, paintings, work of art.
deliberate or criminal act
c. Any loss of the personal belongings unless the Insured’s vehicle is
c. Any loss or damage to the lock or lockset prior to the loss or theft of locked and all doors & windows are properly fastened while
keys unattended.
d. Any loss or damage to the lock only d. Any loss of or damage to belongings carried in connection with any
trade or business
e. Any loss or damage covered under the manufacturer’s warranty
e. Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking zone and from
f. Any claim where the Insured is not able to provide the invoices/
unattended vehicle after accident
receipts for the payments made
f. Any claim for a laptop/mobile phone not declared at the time of Policy
g. Any loss or damage caused by radiation, radioactive contamination or
issuance.
the hazardous properties of any explosive, corrosive, invasive or toxic
substance or material. g. Any claim intimated to the Company after 30 days of such loss.
h. Any loss or destruction of, or damage to, any part of the Insured’s Any amount more than the market value of the mobile phones or laptops as
vehicle other than the keys of the Insured’s vehicle, its associated stated at the time of Policy issuance, deducted appropriately for depreciation
lock, ignition system, any immobilizer, infra-red handset and/or alarm as per the Section 32 of Income Tax Act.
attached to the fob.
Tyre Protect
i. Loss or damage caused by war, invasion, foreign enemy hostilities UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0001V01201819
(whether war is declared or not), civil war, terrorism, rebellion, In consideration of the payment of an additional premium as specified and
revolution, military force or coup, or the actions of any lawful shown in the policy schedule, the Company will cover expenses for repair
government or public or local authority. and/or replacement, as may be necessitated arising out of accidental loss or
j. Any kind of consequential losses damage to tyre(s) and/or tube(s) due to,
Loss of Personal Belongings 1. Tyre side wall indentations due to external impact
UIN IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0021V01201213 2. Tyre burst due to incorrect air pressure
Plan A
3. Damaged to tyre(s) and/or tubes due to external impact
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of Rs___________ by
The company will cover reimbursement of repair and/or replacement as per
the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything to
the scale given below:
the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to
indemnify the Insured, upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, for the loss of 1. Where repair of the damaged tyre is possible - Cost of repair
his personal belongings on account of damage to or theft from the Insured’s 2. Where repair of the damaged tyre is not possible - As per scale
vehicle. mentioned below:
Provided always that: Unused Tread Depth* Reimbursement % of cost of new tyre(s)
1. A deductible of Rs. 500 would be applicable for each claim under this and/or tube(s)
add-on >=7mm 100%
2. A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with the Police for such loss >=5mm to <7mm 75%
3. The Company would not be liable for: >=3mm to <5mm 50%
a. Any loss in open top or convertible cars unless the belongings are kept <3mm 0%
in the locked boot
*Unused Tread depth will be measured at the centre of the tread.
b. Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank drafts, credit or debit Minimum 4 measurements at 4 different places will be taken for the
cards, jewellery, gems, stones, contact lens, glasses, travel tickets, purpose of arriving at mean tread depth which will be the basis of
watches, laptops, mobiles, valuables, manuscripts, paintings, work indemnity under the coverage.
of art.
In any situation, the company’s liability would not exceed the cost arrived
c. Any loss of the personal belongings unless the Insured’s vehicle is basis the unused tread depth of respective tyre as per the scale given
locked and all doors & windows are properly fastened while above.
unattended.
Provided always that
d. Any loss of or damage to belongings carried in connection with any
1. This add-on will not apply to total loss/constructive total loss (TL/CTL) of
trade or business
the insured vehicle.
e. Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking zone and from
2. The tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are repaired/replaced with prior authorization
unattended vehicle after accident
from ICICI Lombard GIC Company Limited.
f. Any claim intimated to the Company after 30 days of such loss.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
Plan B Policy.
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of Rs___________ by Claim under this add-on will have no impact on NO claim bonus earned on the
the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything to base comprehensive policy. NO claim bonus will remain intact even after a
the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to claim under this add-on.
indemnify the Insured, upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, for the loss of
Important Conditions:
his personal belongings, including mobile phones and/or laptops, on account
1. If during the Period of insurance any tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are replaced
of damage to or theft from the Insured’s Vehicle.
for any reason for which claim is not preferred under the coverage, cover
Provided always that:
on new tyre(s) and/or tube(s) would not be available unless details of new
4. A deductible of Rs.500 would be applicable for each claim under this add- tyre(s) and/or tube(s) are informed to us within 15 days and the same is
on, except when the claim is being made only for mobile phones and/or endorsed on the policy.
laptops
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -16- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
2. All claims must be made/intimated to us within 3 days of damage. Number of Days in Garage No of EMI*
However, this condition is not applicable when there is a delay in 0-30 1
intimation due to unavoidable circumstances. 31-60 2
3. Tyre Protect is available as an add-on coverage to a customer purchasing 61-90 3
ICICI Lombard GIC Company Limited Comprehensive Motor Insurance 91-120 4
Policy. 121-150 5
4. Whenever replacement of tyre(s) and/or tube(s) will be allowed, it will be 151-180 6
of the same make and specification as fitted by the OEM’s. However, if > 180 6
tyre(s) and/or tube(s) of similar specification is not available and replaced Subject to maximum EMI selected by the customer & the minimum time excess
tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are superior to damaged one then we will not be The insured has an option to choose from the following time excess options:
liable for differential amount. Time Excess (Minimum Number of Days)
5. Maximum of 4 (four) replacements of tyre(s) and/or tube(s) will be 7 days
allowed during the Period of Insurance ie. for policy of 12 months. 10 days
6. In case of replacement of four tyre(s) and/or tube(s) for which a claim is 14 days
preferred under the coverage, replaced tyre(s) and/or tube(s) can be 21 days
reinstated by way of endorsement by paying requisite premium. 28 days
7. If damage to tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are due to the accidental damage to Provided always that:
the insured vehicle covered under “Own Damage” section of the policy. 1) Such claim is admitted by the Company under Section I – “Loss or
ICICI Lombard GIC Company Limited liability under this cover will be Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy
restricted to the difference of depreciation percentage applied under 2) Number of EMIs payable will depend on option exercised by the insured or
“Own Damage” section and as mentioned above basis the unused tread sum insured mentioned in policy whichever is lower and is subject to
depth. repair time exceeding the Time Excess specified for each option.
3) Actual repair time will be counted from the next calendar day after the
Exclusions: insured vehicle is delivered to the Garage along with intimation of claim &
ICICI Lombard will not be liable: submission of all required claim documents to the insurer till the day
immediately preceding the date of discharge or re-inspection or date of
1. For loss or damage arising out of natural wear and tear, mechanical failure invoice for such repair as prepared by the garage, whichever is earlier
or improper suspension geometry as specified by manufacturer. 4) Claim under this add-on is intimated to the Company within 5 days of loss
2. For any loss or damage within first 15 days of inception of the policy. or damage
3. For any loss or damage occurred prior to inception of the policy 5) The vehicle is repaired at a network garage of the company.
4. For any loss or damage resulting into total loss of the vehicle 6) Submission of statement of account from the financier for the asset
5. For theft of tyre(s)/tube(s) or its parts accessories without vehicle being (vehicle) insured.
stolen or theft of entire vehicle. Special Exclusions:
6. For any loss or damage resulting into total loss/Constructive total loss of Company will not be liable for any claim on account of –
the insured vehicle a. Delay of more than 5 days, in delivering insured vehicle to the garage from
7. If repair/replacement of tyres done at unauthorized garage the time of occurrence of accidental damage or loss
8. If the tyre(s) and/or tube(s) being claimed is different from tyre(s) and/or b. Non-availability of spare parts required for repair
tube(s) insured/supplied as original equipment along with the vehicle c. Any due amount because of default or non-payment or delayed payment
unless informed to us and mentioned/endorsed on the policy. d. For more than one covered incident per policy year.
9. For loss or damage arising out of any manufacturing defect or design e. Any other consequential loss or charges associated with the loan
including manufacturer’s recall. payment such as late payment charges, pre-payment charges or other
10. For minor damage or scratch not affecting the functioning documentation charges.
11. If the tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are repaired/replaced without prior f. Default in payment of EMI in the last one year preceding the date of
authorization from ICICI Lombard GIC Company Limited accident.
12. For tyre(s) which has/have been used for its full specified life as per g. Report of total loss or theft of the vehicle.
manufacturer’s guideline or where unused tread depth is less than 3 mm. Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and limitations of the Policy.
• Unused Tread depth will be measured at the centre of the tread.
Minimum 4 measurements at 4 different places will be taken for the
Emergency Medical Expenses
purpose of arriving at mean tread depth which will be the basis of
IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0002V01202122
indemnity under the coverage.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and limitations of this
13. Where a loss is covered with any other manufacturer’s warranty or recall
Policy, and in consideration of the payment of an additional premium by the
campaign or under any other such packages at the same time
Insured, it is hereby agreed and understood that notwithstanding any other
14. For any excess mentioned in Policy schedule
terms contrary under the Policy,
15. For the difference if any between the cost of the superior tyre(s) and/or
The Company will be liable for the below mentioned Emergency medical
tube(s) and that of the tyre(s) and/or tube(s) of similar specification, used
expenses incurred for the treatment of bodily injury/injuries sustained by
for replacement.
insured and/or any occupant of the vehicle in direct relation with insured vehicle
The injury/injuries sustained in an accident to be whilst mounting and
dismounting from or driving or travelling in the insured vehicle caused by
EMI Protect violent, accidental external and visible means requiring necessary medical
UIN- IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0001V01202021 treatment in any Hospital or any clinic or nursing home.
In consideration of the payment of Rs___________ by the Insured, it is hereby 1. Accidental Hospitalisation – The Company shall reimburse the accidental
agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in medical expenses incurred by the insured and/or any other occupant(s)
the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to: travelling in the insured vehicle (as per the registered seating capacity)
Pay the total liable EMI amount, as stated in the schedule, to the Insured for towards the treatment of bodily injury sustained in an accident involving
which the Insured’s vehicle is under repair in a garage, due to loss/damage to the insured vehicle.
the vehicle on account of a peril covered under the Policy, subject to the The aggregate liability of the Company under the said cover for all the
minimum number of days of vehicle in garage as stated in schedule. occupants will be limited up to the Sum Insured mentioned against the
Insured has an option to choose the number of EMI (Subject to min of 1 and Max said cover in the Policy Schedule.
6) and time excess (subject to min of 7 days). The number of EMI payable will 2. Ambulance Cover – The Company shall:
depend on the number of days the vehicle is under repair in garage as per below a. Arrange ground medical transportation by an ambulance service
table. provider to transport the Insured Person and/or any other
occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle from the site of accident
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -17- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
to the nearest Hospital or any clinic or nursing home for medical Definition for the purpose of this add-on:
necessary treatment as available in that particular city/location. This
Franchise means a minimum amount of loss that must be incurred before
is merely a telephonic assistance service and is subject to
insurance coverage applies. Once the Deductible is met, the entire benefit
availability of the service provider in the location of the accident.
amount is paid, subject to the Policy terms and conditions.
There are no restrictions on the number of times the telephonic
Hospital/Nursing Home/Clinic means any institution established for in-
ambulance assistance can be availed.
patient care and day care treatment of illness and / or injuries and which
b. And also reimburse the expenses incurred by the insured and/or any
has been registered as a hospital/nursing home/clinic with the local
occupant(s) for hiring an ambulance for such transportation. The
authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and
aggregate liability of the Company towards the cost of hiring an
Regulations) Act 2010 or under enactments specified under the Schedule
ambulance for all the injured occupants will be limited up to the Sum
of Section 56(1) of the said Act.
Insured mentioned against the said cover in the Policy Schedule.
Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests,
3. Hospital Daily Cash – If insured and/or any occupant(s) travelling in the
medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which:
insured vehicle, suffers an Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the
- is required for the medical management of the injury suffered by the
Policy Period and which solely and directly requires the injured
insured or any other occupant travelling in the insured vehicle;
occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle to be Hospitalized, then We
will pay the daily amount specified in the Policy Schedule against this - must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe,
cover for each continuous and completed day of Hospitalization of the adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or
injured person(s). intensity;
The Company shall not be liable to pay the daily amount for more than the - must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
maximum number of days as specified in the Policy Schedule, during the
- must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in
Policy Period. Further the number of injured to whom the claim will be paid
international medical practice or by the medical community in India.
under the cover will be limited to the number as opted by the insured and
Pre-existing diseases means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
duly mentioned under the policy Schedule.
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the
The Company’s liability to make any payment under this cover shall be in
effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
excess of the per event Franchise, stated in the Policy Schedule, as
applicable. b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or
received from, a physician within 48 months prior to the effective
Illustration: If there is a Franchise of two days under this benefit and the
date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement.
injured occupant of the insured vehicle is admitted in a hospital for one
day, then this benefit shall not be payable . However, if the injured “Telephonic/Virtual Consultation” shall mean any consultations provided
occupant is hospitalized for more than two days, then he shall be entitled by Medical Practitioners/Healthcare Professionals through a virtual mode
under this benefit for all days of hospitalization limited to sum insured of communication, such as via audio, video, online portal, chat or mobile
mentioned under the policy schedule. application for routine health query or second opinion.
4. Tele Consultation - If insured and/or any occupant(s) travelling in the Specific Exclusions:
insured vehicle, requires any medical emergency assistance that occurs
a. Any expenses related to a sickness, disease or medical disorder not
during the Policy Period, they can avail Telephonic/Virtual Consultation
directly consequential to accident.
through mobile application specified in the Policy Certificate.
b. Any expenses related to pre-existing diseases or medical disorders,
Telephonic/Virtual Consultation service can be availed as many times as
except for Tele consultation service
mentioned in policy schedule.
c. Any physiotherapy treatment.
(i) It is agreed and understood that the Insured Person/occupant(s)
is/are free to choose whether or not to obtain the expert opinion, and d. Any expense not supported by an original and valid bill / receipt and
if obtained then whether or not to act on it; related prescription of the attending Medical Practitioner / Hospital /
Nursing Home.
(ii) Under this Benefit, We are only providing the Insured
Person/occupant(s) with access to consultations or opinion and e. Any expenses for treatment commenced after 3 days from the date
we shall not be deemed to substitute the Insured of accident.
Person’s/occupant(s) visit or consultation to an independent
f. Not more than sum-insured as mentioned in the schedule during per
Medical Practitioner.
policy tenure.
Provided always that
g. Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable to intentional self-
1. Such claims are admitted by the Company under Section I – “Loss or injury, suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or infirmity.
Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy, except for Tele
h. Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable to an accident
Consultation service.
happening due to the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
2. Claim under this add-on is intimated to the Company within 5 days of
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions condition & limitations of the policy.
occurrence of incident, however, this condition is not applicable
Warranty: Warranted that the insured named herein/owner of the vehicle
when there is a delay in intimation due to unavoidable
holds a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC) Certificate and/or valid fitness
circumstances.
certificate, as applicable, on the date of commencement of the Policy and
3. Accident has occurred in direct connection with insured vehicle
undertakes to renew and maintain a valid and effective PUC and/or fitness
whilst driving the vehicle including mounting into/ dismounting from
Certificate, as applicable, during the subsistence of the Policy. Further, the
or traveling in the insured vehicle.
Company reserves the right to take appropriate action in case of any
4. The limit on the number of claims that can be made and the discrepancy in the PUC or fitness certificate.
aggregate liability to be paid during the policy period will be
restricted to the sum insured mentioned against each of the
coverage’s separately.
5. The benefit under this section is NOT payable in case the number of
persons/ passengers traveling in the insured vehicle is more than the
number specified in the registration certificate valid at the time of
occurrence of such accident.
6. Submission of original Bills / Reports / Prescriptions/Indoor case
papers and Hospital discharge summary shall be required for
reimbursement of all such claims.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -18- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Motor Floater • Mid Term inclusion of vehicles-
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0009V01202223 Proposer/ insured can add a new vehicle to the motor
floater during the currency of the policy provided that it falls
In consideration of the payment of Rs ___________ by the
under the preview of the add-on. Premium for such vehicle
Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding
included shall be paid by proposer/ insured as a separate
anything to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company
charge calculated on pro rata basis for the remaining
hereby undertakes to offer below mentioned benefits:
period of the policy. The floater sum insured would get
Benefit offered increased to the extent of IDV of new vehicles added.
• To offer a single policy irrespective of the number of • Mid Term exclusion of vehicles-
vehicles owned by proposer* and an option to have
Mid Term exclusion may be necessitated by total loss/
different sub-limits/IDV for each vehicle.
Constructive Total Loss (CTL)/ total-theft of a vehicle or sale
• Different vehicle may have different risk start date, based of any one or more of the vehicles by the insured included in
on the respective due dates of insurance of each vehicle. the floater add on.
However, the risk end date of all the vehicles would be
In case of Sale/ ownership transfer of any one of the vehicle,
aligned with the risk end date of the vehicle which has the
refund would be done as per terms of the base policy.
earliest risk start date.
In case of total loss/CTL/total-theft of any vehicle, the floater
For Example-
add on would continue with the remaining vehicles in the policy.
Components PVT 01 PVT 02 TW 01
For the above scenarios, floater sum insured would get
Previous Year Policy 8-Jul-22 10-Aug-22 15-Sep-22 decreased to the extent of IDV of the excluded vehicles.
End date
Other coverage & Exclusions would be as per the base policy.
Floater Policy Risk 9-Jul-22 11-Aug-22 16-Sep-22
Cancellations & endorsements as applicable would be guided
Start Date
as per the base policy terms & conditions.
Floater Policy Risk 8-Jul-23 8-Jul-23 8-Jul-23
End Date
Telematics
• As shown above, the risk end date of all the 3 vehicles are
aligned which will help insured to have similar risk start UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0017V01202223
date during next renewal.
STANDARD FORM
• For aligning the risk start dates the premiums are
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as
calculated on pro rata basis, wherever the risk period of the
stated in the Schedule which shall be the basis of this contract
vehicle is less than 12 months.
and is deemed to be incorporated herein has applied to the
Explanation & definitions of Add on features- Company for the Add-on cover hereinafter contained and has
paid the premium mentioned in the schedule as consideration
• *Proposer for Motor Floater is defined as an individual who
for such cover in respect of accidental loss or damage occurring
can pool their-own or their family member’s vehicles in a
to the insured vehicle during the period of insurance.
single policy using the Motor Floater add-on.
NOW THIS ADDON WITNESSETH
• Family shall mean & include the proposer and any one or
more of the family members as mentioned below: That subject to the Terms Exceptions and Conditions contained
herein or endorsed or expressed hereon;
(i) legally wedded spouse.
SCOPE OF COVER:
(ii) Parents and Parents-in-law.
Telematics Add-on shall be offered with the Base Motor
(iii) Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted)
Insurance policy,of either Private car or Two Wheeler and all
(iv) And siblings of the proposer covers, regulations and exclusions of the base motor policy
would apply to the policy with Telematics add-on also.
• Sum Insured for the purpose of Motor Floater Add-on
would mean- Plans under Telematics Add-on (Add-on would be applicable
to Section 1 of the policy only i.e Motor Own Damage, Fire &
Summation of Insured declared value (IDV) of each of the
Theft)
vehicles covered in the floater policy will be the Motor
Floater Sum-Insured**. 1) Pay As You Use (PAYU) plan: This Add-on would convert
the base motor product into an Asset cum Usage based
*IDV is defined as the amount which is determined and
product. The Premium charged for the insurance of the
agreed upon between the insurer and the proposer/insured
base motor vehicle would depend partially on the usage
with respect to any insured vehicle at the inception of the
i.e., Kilometres clocked or estimated Kilometres to be
policy period, up to which indemnification shall be allowed
clocked during the tenure of the policy.
in case of loss in any single incidence/event.
• The Add-on would be offered with Base product,
**Motor Floater Sum-Insured is defined as the maximum
covering different Kilometer ranges as opted by the
amount in case of any single incidence/event, available to
Insured. Insured will have an option to top-up for
be utilised by any/all the vehicles covered under the Floater
additional Kilometers (by paying additional premium)
Policy subject to the individual vehicle IDV. The Sum
once the Kilometers opted in the Initial plan is
Insured can change on renewal or with mid-term inclusion
exhausted during the policy period.
& exclusion of a vehicle.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -19- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
• The Kilometer based plan (initial & top-ups) would h) In case of transfer of ownership endorsement, the New
cover only the perils against section-1 of the policy, i.e. Owner would be eligible for the un-used number of
Motor Own-damage, Fire & Theft. Kms left in the purchased plan along with the TP/PA
part of the policy if applicable. Additional premium
• The Add-on will be effective for the same period as the
towards NCB and other charges may be applicable as
Motor Own Damage under section 1 of the policy
per the provisions of Indian Motor Tariff applicable to
unless and until stated other-wise, however coverage
the base product.
in the policy would be valid only when purchased
Kilometers remains partially or fully un-used at the i) The Company may cancel the policy as prescribed in
time of occurrence of loss. the base policy by sending seven days’ notice by
recorded delivery to the insured at insured’s last
Terms of PAYU coverage:
known address and in such event will return to the
a) This Add-on is offered on Kilometer based usage, i.e. insured the premium for un-used Kms of last
the premium will be charged based on opted plans of purchased plan, whether initial and/or top-up (and not
different Kilometer ranges. for any accumulated Kms carried forward from
previous year’s policy). The policy may also be
b) Insured can opt for any offered Kilometer range as per
cancelled at any time by the insured on seven days’
his/her requirement. If the initially purchased
notice by recorded delivery and provided no claim has
kilometers are exhausted, Insured may top-up the
arisen during the currency of the policy, the insured
add-on (from the available top-up options) at any
shall be entitled to a return of premium for the un-used
time during the policy period, subject to additional
Kms purchased. Refund of premium would be done
payment of premium thereto.
only for the un-used Kms, whether initial and/or top-up
c) Any claim reported under Section 1 of the policy after (and not for any accumulated Kms carried forward
exhaustion of purchased Kilometers (initial or top-up) from previous year’s policy).
will not be covered. However, keeping practical
However no refund would be provided if cancellation is
scenarios in view, 100 (one hundred) grace Kilometers
initiated by Insured in last 30 days of the policy period.
would be offered after exhaustion of purchased
kilometers (only for accident cases & not for theft In scenarios where cancellation of the policy is
cases). necessitated by virtue of Total Loss, Total theft or
Constructive total loss, no refund would be made
If the vehicle is not driven more than 100 Kms after
towards the Own-Damage premium.
exhaustion of the purchased plan the claim made
would still be honored subject to payment of premium Return of the premium by the company will be subject
for top-up after the loss and within the currency of the to retention of the minimum premium of ` 100/- (or `
policy. 25/-in respect of vehicles specifically
designed/modified for use by blind/handicapped/
d) Kilometers remaining unused after expiry of the term
mentally challenged persons) per year. Where the
of the base policy would carry forward to the renewed
ownership of the vehicle is transferred, the policy
policy subject to the following:
stands cancelled automatically.
• Maximum number of Kilometers that can be
All other provisions and regulations related to
carried forward will be 1000 if renewed within the
Cancellation would be same as applicable to the base
due date, or within 30 days from expiry of the
product.
policy.
2) Pay How You Use plan: This plan would convert the base
• Beyond 30 days from due date of renewal, carry
motor product into an Asset cum “Usage and/or Driving-
forward of un-used kilometers will not be allowed.
Behaviour” based product.
e) Insured should ensure that the number of Kilometers
• Being a usage based Add-on, the insurance premium
driven at any point during the policy tenure or at the
would be effected based on how an insured vehicle is
point of claim is easily ascertainable through use of
Used and/or Driven.
technology or through readings in vehicles odometer
or through any other available means. Historical data of relevant customer segment may also
be used to establish the inherent behavior of the
Any act of tempering with such devices or readings, or
specific segment of customer to extend upfront pricing
any act which renders such devices non-functional
variability.
would make the policy/Add-ons/covers in-effective
and may lead to repudiation of claims made. Discounts Loadings
If the device is rendered non-functional or is Driving 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
malfunctioning is observed due to any defect in the Score Up Up Up Up Up Up Up Up Up Up Up
device (caused by wear & tear or manufacturing Band to to to to to to to to to to to
20% 18% 16% 14% 12% - 12% 14% 16% 18% 20%
defect), the Insured should bring the same to the notice
of Insurer immediately. • The Driving / Usage behavior would be derived basis
available parameters and would be classified into
f) Insured may opt for other available add-ons in the
Score-ranges or Bands. Discounts and loadings would
base product of Private Car and Two Wheeler.
be provided to the insured based on the Score Bands
g) NCB as per applicable rate would be provided to the achieved over a period of time.
insured for the initial Km based purchase of package
Example (for representative purpose):
and also on top-up Kms repurchased there-after
during the same policy period irrespective of claim in Best Driving score Band 10
the running policy.
Least Driving score Band 0
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -20- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Above mentioned percentages may be offered as lighting, and ignition (SLI) batteries as they are designed to
discounts and loading basis the Driving-behavior give power over sustained periods of time and are deep-
score bands. Applicable score band & scoring pattern cycle batteries.
would be updated at the point of policy purchase.
3. Drive Motor/electric Motor is a motor which is fitted on the
• The Add-on will be effective for the same period as the axles which converts electric energy into mechanical
Motor Own Damage under section 1 of the policy energy.
unless and until stated other-wise 4. HEV (Hybrid electric vehicle) system - The HEV system
contains of Electric motor, DC/DC step down converter,
Terms of PHYU coverage:
electric generator & power electronics controller
a) Insured should ensure that the number of Kilometers driven 5. In case of an accident, payment under this add-on would
and other parameters related to driving behavior, at any be made only when there is evidence of under carriage
point during the policy tenure or at the point of claim is damage to Battery and resulting into damage to covered
easily ascertainable whether through use of technology or parts as mentioned above.
through readings in vehicle’s devices (like Odometer) or
6. In case of short circuit while mounting, dismounting or
through any other available means.
vehicle in charging port resulting into damage/failure to
Any act of tempering with such devices or readings, or any covered parts as mentioned above.
act which renders such devices/facilities/technologies non- 7. The Company would not be liable for:
functional would make the policy/Add-ons/covers in- a) Any claim where the subject matter of claims is
effective and may lead to repudiation of claims made. covered under any other type of insurance policy
with any other insurer or manufacturer’s warranty
If the device is rendered non-functional or is malfunctioning
including recall campaign or under any other such
is observed due to any defect in the device (caused by wear
packages at the same time.
& tear or manufacturing defect), the Insured should bring
the same to the notice of Insurer immediately. b) Any claim which is intimated to the Company after 30
days of the happening of loss or damage.
b) Insured may also opt for other available add-ons in the
c) Any claim where the repair has been carried out
base product of Private Car and Two Wheeler.
without prior approval from the Company
Note: d) Any claims related to loss or damage due to wear and
tear
Insured may opt for any one or both the PAYU & PHYU plans
within the Telematics Add-on. e) Any claim where Charging is not done as per the
guidelines of OEM (original equipment manufacturer)
In case Insured opts for both the plans the provisions related to
f) Any claim where battery is already dead due untimely
product feature, Endorsement & Cancellations would be as
charging or any other purpose.
mentioned under “Terms of PAYU coverage”. In addition,
g) Maximum one claim will be payable under this Add on
Insured’s driving behavior would also be factored-in for
cover per policy tenure.
deriving the premium.
h) Vehicle stopped due to over discharge of batteries and
is not plugged for charge within 24 hrs from the time of
Battery Protect Cover
stoppage.
IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0005V01202223
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and limitations
Battery Protect Cover (For Electric/Hybrid vehicle (Petrol +
of the Policy.
Electric))
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
Rs___________ by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared Smart Saver:
that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0048V01202223
Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the This cover can be availed only as an Add-on cover subject
Insured for expenses incurred in repair or replacement due to to payment of additional premium mentioned in the
consequential damages arising out of water ingression/Short
policy schedule, if any one of the base covers (Own
circuit causing loss or damage to battery, drive Motor/electric
Damage) are opted under the policy.
Motor and HEV (Hybrid electric vehicle) system, whether it
If the Policyholder intimates an Own Damage claim of the
forms part of or taken & fitted separately to the insured vehicle.
insured vehicle first to ICICI Lombard General Insurance
Provided always that:
Company Ltd (“ICICI Lombard”) and the insured vehicle is
1. For the purpose of this add-on, ‘Consequential Damage’
would mean “the damage more specifically expressed taken for repairs to an ICICI Lombard Smart Care Garage
hereinabove caused to an insured vehicle not arising (Select Network Garage) *, any voluntary deductible opted by
directly from an insured peril but as a direct consequence to the policyholder as specified in the Policy Schedule will be
the same”. waived off subject to a maximum amount of Rs. 5000/-
2. Battery would mean an electric-vehicle battery (EVB) (also (Rupees Five Thousand Only) per claim. ICICI Lombard will
known as a traction battery) is a battery used to power the also provide assurance on the quality of workmanship for a
electric motors of a battery electric vehicle (BEV) or hybrid
period of 6 months or 6000 kms post repair whichever is
electric vehicle (HEV). These batteries are usually
earlier for the repairs carried out at the Select Network
rechargeable (secondary) batteries, and are typically
Garage. In case of any delay in repair of the insured vehicle
lithium-ion batteries. These batteries are specifically
at the Select Network Garage within the assured time, ICICI
designed for a high ampere-hour (or kilowatt-hour)
Lombard will provide alternate travel arrangement as per
capacity. Electric-vehicle batteries differ from starting,
terms mentioned in the policy schedule. In the unlikely event
of ICICI Lombard being unable to provide alternate travel
arrangement, we may request the Insured to arrange for
travel on his own and submit the bill for reimbursement as
per policy terms & condition.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -21- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Special Conditions: insured (as stated above) may depend on various factors
This Add-on is subject to the following special conditions: and would be limited to the per-day maximum amount
a) The claim being admissible under Section I of the mentioned on the policy schedule. The Maximum amount in
underlying Policy in respect of the Insured Vehicle. any case would be limited to Rs. 1000/- per-day.
b) The alternate travel arrangement shall be provided for a 4) The amount of alternate travel arrangement provided per
maximum of 5 days only in case of a delay beyond the day cannot be carried forward to the subsequent day or any
assured time for the Own Damage claim such day in the future.
c) The assured time will be calculated from the next day of Any un-availed costs towards alternate travel arrangement
receipt of the insured vehicle at the Select Network shall automatically expire & cannot be redeemed later.
Garage. ICICI Lombard will also provide assurance on the quality of
d) The amount of alternate travel arrangement provided per workmanship for a period of 24 months or 10000 kms post
day cannot be carried forward to the subsequent day or repair whichever is earlier for the repairs carried out at the
any such day in the future. Any un-availed costs towards Selected Preferred Partner Garage. If any defects arise owing to
alternate travel arrangement shall automatically expire & the quality of workmanship, the same would be
cannot be redeemed later. repaired/replaced at no extra cost to the policyholder. However,
e) The service Assurance will not be available in case of any any kind of consequential losses are not covered under this
force majeure, natural event or manmade disturbance Add-on.
which impedes its ability to fulfill the Assurance or where Special Conditions:
the delay in claim processing or repair/servicing or delivery This Add-on is subject to the following conditions:
of vehicle is caused by the insured, due to any reason, a) The claim being admissible under Section I of the underlying
including but not limited to, additional service/repair Policy in respect of the Insured Vehicle.
request being made by the insured. b) The service Assurance will not be available in case of any
Exclusions force majeure, natural event or manmade disturbance
i) This Add-on will not be applicable if the insured gets the which impedes its ability to fulfill the Assurance or where the
vehicle repaired at a garage other than the Select Network delay in claim processing or repair/servicing or delivery of
Garage. vehicle is caused by the insured, due to any reason, including
ii) This Add-on shall not be applicable in case of theft, but not limited to, additional service/repair request being
whether Total or Partial and/or Total Loss/ Constructive made by the insured.
Total Loss of the insured vehicle under the Policy. c) Cancellation: The Add on cover will run concurrently with the
iii) This Add-on is subject to the other terms, conditions, Own Damage section of the Policy. Refund in case of such
limitations and exclusions of the underlying Policy. cancellation shall follow the same procedure as the base
SMART SAVER PLUS policy.
Exclusions:
UIN - IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0002V01202425
i) This Add-on will not be applicable if the insured gets the
This cover can be availed only as an Add-on cover subject to
vehicle repaired at a garage other than the Selected
payment of additional premium mentioned in the policy
Preferred Partner Garage
schedule.
ii) Cover under this add-on shall not be available for Theft and
Provided always that,
burglary claims
1) Policyholder intimates an Own Damage claim of the
iii) For any loss or damage resulting into total loss of the vehicle
insured vehicle first to ICICI Lombard General Insurance
iv) Cover under this add-on shall not be available for damage
Company Ltd (“ICICI Lombard”) where claim liability is not
caused by deterioration, wear and tear, electrical
exceeding Rs. 50,000/-and the insured vehicle is taken for
breakdown or mechanical failure or any accidents.
repairs to an ICICI Lombard Smart Care Garage (Selected
v) For loss or damage arising out of any manufacturing defect
Preferred Partner Garage) *.
or design including manufacturer’s recall.
The same will be repaired in Assured Turn-Around-Time
vi) Any loss or damage covered under the manufacturer’s
(TAT) of 5 days, the assured time will be calculated from the
warranty (Losses recoverable under any other insurance or
next day of receipt of the insured vehicle at the Selected
any scheme by the Manufacturer or Dealer or any other
Preferred Partner Garage.
source may not be covered under this add-on)
2) In case of any delay in repair of the insured vehicle at the
vii) Fraudulent act committed by insured or any person
Selected Preferred Partner Garage within the assured time,
entrusted possession of the vehicle by insured
ICICI Lombard will provide alternate travel arrangement as
This Add-on is subject to the other terms, conditions, limitations
per terms mentioned in the policy schedule.
and exclusions of the underlying Policy.
In the unlikely event of ICICI Lombard being unable to
provide alternate travel arrangement, we may request the
*Selected Preferred Partner Garage is a subset of our Preferred
Insured to arrange for travel on their own and submit the bill
Partner garages at select locations. The list of selected
for reimbursement as per policy terms & condition.
preferred partner garage is subject to change from time to time
The alternate travel arrangement shall be provided for a
and updated list shall be made available to the policyholders in
maximum of 5 days only in case of a delay beyond the
our website - https://www.icicilombard.com/ or by calling the
assured time for the Own Damage claim.
Toll-free number 18002666.
3) The Maximum cost borne by the company towards such
alternate travel arrangement or Re-imbursement to the
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -22- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
Warranty: Warranted that the insured named herein/owner of section “Grievance Redressal” on our website
the vehicle holds a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC) www.icicilombard.com (Customer Support section). However, if
Certificate and/or valid fitness certificate, as applicable, on the the resolution provided by us is not satisfactory you may
date of commencement of the Policy and undertakes to renew approach Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
and maintain a valid and effective PUC and/or fitness (IRDA) through the Integrated Grievance Management Section
Certificate, as applicable, during the subsistence of the Policy. (IGMS) or IRDA Grievance Call Centre(IGCC) at their toll free
Further, the Company reserves the right to take appropriate no.155255. You may also approach Insurance Ombudsman,
action in case of any discrepancy in the PUC or fitness subject to vested jurisdiction, for the redressal of grievance.
certificate. Details of Insurance Ombudsman offices are available at IRDA
Grievances: For resolution of any query or grievance, Insured website: www.irdaindia.org, or on the Company’s website at
may contact the respective branch office of the Company or www.icicilombard.com.
may call toll free no. 1800-2666 or may approach us at the sub
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 -23- CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
DETAILS OF INSURANCE OMBUDSMAN
You can also approach the Insurance Ombudsman, depending on the nature of grievance and the financial implication, if any. Information about Insurance Ombudsmen, their jurisdiction and powers is
available on the website of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) at www.irdai.gov.in, or of the General Insurance Council at www.generalinsurancecouncil.org.in, the
Consumer Education Website of the IRDAI at http://www.policyholder.gov.i n, or from any of Our Offices.
The details of Insurance Ombudsman are available below:
Name of office of insurance Ombudsman Territorial Area of jurisdiction Name of office of insurance Ombudsman Territorial Area of jurisdiction
AHMEDABAD Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman HYDERABAD Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Yanam and
Shri Kuldip Singh, Office of the Insurance and Diu. Shri N Sankaran Office of the Insurance, Ombudsman, Part of Territory of Puducherry.
Ombudsman, Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", Lane Opp. Saleem
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001. Function Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 Hyderabad - 500 004. Tel.: 040 - 67504123 /
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 23312122 Fax: 040 – 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
BENGALURU Karnataka
Mr. Vipin Anand, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JAIPUR Rajasthan.
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27- N-19 Ground Shri Rajiv Dutt Sharma, Office of the Insurance
Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Ombudsman, Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bengaluru – 560 078. Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005. Tel.: 0141 -
26652049 2740363.
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
BHOPAL Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh. KOLKATA West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar
Shri R. M. Singh, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Shri P K Rath, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Islands.
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue,
Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 KOLKATA - 700 072. Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
003. Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 Fax: 0755 - Fax : 033 - 22124341
2769203 Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
LUCKNOW Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Laitpur, Jhansi,
BHUBANESHWAR Odisha. Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot,
Shri Suresh Chandra Panda, Office of the Insurance Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, Nawal Kishore Road, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra,
Ombudsman, 62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001. Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi,
009. Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 Fax: 0674 - 2231331 Fax: 0522 - 2231310 Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao,
2596429 Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki,
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad,
CHANDIGARH Punjab, Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti,
Mr. Atul Jerath, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Faridabad, Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Himachal Pradesh, Union Territory of Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar,
Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017. Tel.: 0172 - Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh & Chandigarh. Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur,
2706196 / 2706468 Fax: 0172 - 2708274 Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in MUMBAI Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region
CHENNAI Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry Town and Shri Bharatkumar S. Pandya, Office of the Insurance Excluding ( Navi Mumbai & Thane).
Shri Segar Sampathkumar, Office of the Insurance Karaikal (which are part of Pondicherry). Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V.
Ombudsman, Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054. Tel.: 022 -
Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018. Tel.: 26106552 / 26106960 Fax: 022 - 26106052
044 - 24333668 / 24335284 Fax: 044 - 24333664 Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in NOIDA State of Uttaranchal and the following
DELHI Delhi & following District of Haryana – Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad, Office of the Insurance Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh,
Shri Sudhir Krishna, Office of the Insurance Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Ombudsman, Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun,
Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Bahadurgarh Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri,
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002. Tel.: 011 - Nagar, U.P-201301. Tel.: 2514252 / 2514253 Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad,
23232481/23213504 Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah,
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in Farrukhabad, Firozbad,
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi,
ERNAKULAM Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part of Shahjahanpur
Shri G Radhakrishnan Office of the Insurance Puducherry.
Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin PATNA Bihar, Jharkhand.
Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015. Shri N. K Singh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 Fax: 0484 - 2359336 1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, Bazar Samiti
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-
2680952
GUWAHATI Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram,
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
Shri Somnath Ghosh, Office of the Insurance Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura.
Ombudsman, Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar PUNE Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and
over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). Shri Vinay Sah, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Thane (excluding Mumbai Metropolitan
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to Region).
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are available on IRDA website: www.irdaindia.org,
on the website of General Insurance Council: www.generalinsurancecouncil.org.in, website of
the Company www.icicilombard.com or from any of the offices of the Company.
Now you can intimate your motor claim with an SMS. Just SMS CLAIM to 575758
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
Mailing Address: Interface Building No. 16, 601-602, 6th Floor, New Link Road, Malad (West), Mumbai - 400 064.
Registered Office Address: ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025.
Visit us at www.icicilombard.com • Mail us at customersupport@icicilombard.com • Toll Free No.: 1800 2666 • Chargable No.: +91 86 55 222 666
Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation. IRDA Reg. No. 115. CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408.
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408