ID: user_householders_policy_prospectus
FILE: Householders policy prospectus.pdf
========================================================================

NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Regd. & Head Office. 3, Middleton Street, Kolkata-700071
HOUSE HOLDERS INSURANCE POLICY
Policy issuing Office:
Whereas the Insured named in the Schedule hereto has made to National Insurance Company
Limited (hereinafter called “ The Company”) a proposal and declaration which shall be the
basis of this contract and be deemed to be incorporated herein for the insurance hereinafter
contained and has paid or agreed to pay the premium stated herein.
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms and conditions contained herein or endorsed
or otherwise expressed hereon that if the insured shall sustain LOSS of or DAMAGE to
property or INCUR LIABILITY or the insured or the partners directors or managerial staff or
employees of the Insured permanently working with the Insured shall sustain BODILY
INJURY as described herein at any time during the period of insurance stated herein or any
subsequent period in respect of which the Insured shall have paid or agreed to pay and the
Company shall have accepted or agreed to accept the premium required for the renewal thereof
the Company will pay to the insured the value at the time of happening of such loss of the
property so lost or the amount of such damage or the amount of liability incurred or the
benefits specified herein as the case may be but not exceeding in any one period of insurance in
respect of each of the several items specified herein the sum set opposite thereof respectively.
GENERAL CONDITIONS:
a) Notice: every notice and communication to the company required by this policy shall be in
writing to the office of the company through which this insurance is effected.
b) Misdescription: this policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to
the company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any
material information..
c) Reasonable Care: The insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the property
insured against any loss or damage. The insured shall exercise reasonable care that only
competent employees are employed and shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent all
accidents and shall comply with all statutory or other regulations.
d) Cancellation: The company may at any time by seven (07) notice in writing cancel
this policy. In which case the Company shall return to the insured proportion of the last
premium corresponding to the un-expired period of insurance. The policy may also be
terminated at any time at the request of the insured in which case the company will
retain the premium for the period this policy has been in force at the Company s’ short
period scale subject to no claim being reported under the policy.
e) Claims Procedure:
i) The insured shall upon the occurrence of any event giving rise or likely to give rise to a claim
under this policy
a) In the event of theft lodge forthwith a complaint with the Police and take all practicable steps tp
apprehend the guilty person or persons and to recover the property lost.
b) Give immediate notice thereof to the company and shall within fourteen (14) days thereafter
furnish to the company at his own expense detailed particulars of the amount of the loss or
damage together with such explanation and evidence to substantiate the claim as the company
may reasonable require.
ii) if the insured or any partner, director or member of the managerial staff or employee of the insured
sustain any bodily injury in respect of which a claim is or may be made hereunder prompt written
notice thereof shall be given to the company as soon as possible but in any event within fourteen
(14) days of the date of injury. If the insured or an partner, director or member of the managerial
staff or employees of the insured shall die, notice of death shall be given by the legal
representatives forthwith. All certificates, information and evidence whether from a medical
attendant or otherwise required by the company shall be furnished at the expenses of the insured or
his legal representatives and shall be in such form and of such nature as the company may
prescribe. The injured person must immediately after the occurrence of accident which may be the
subject of a claim hereunder obtain medical treatment failing which the company will not be liable
for any consequence thereof.
iii) the insured shall upon the occurrence of any event giving rise or likely to give rise to a claim under
the policy, give immediate notice thereof to the company and shall forward to the company
forthwith every written notice or information of an verbal notice of claim and shall send to the
company an writ, summons or other legal process issued or commenced against the insured and
shall give all necessary information and assistance to enable the company to settle or resist any
claim or to institute proceedings. The insured shall not incur any expense in making good an claim
without the written consent of the company and shall not negotiate, pay, settle, admit or repudiate
an claim without such consent.
f) Contribution: if at the time of any loss or damage happening to any property hereby
insured there be an other subsisting insurance or insurance whether effected by the insured or
by any other person or persons covering the same property, this company shall not be liable to
pay or contribute more than its rateable proportion of such loss or damage or liability.
g) Fraud: if any claim under this policy shall be in any respect fraudulent or if any fraudulent
means or devices are used by the insured or anyone acting on the insureds’ behalf to obtain any
benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy shall be forfeited.
h) Indemnity: The company may at its option reinstate, replace or repair the property or
premises lost or damaged or any part thereof instead of paying the amount of loss or damage or
may join with any other insurer in so doing but the company shall not be bound to reinstate
exactly or completely but only as circumstances permit and in reasonable sufficient manner and
in no case shall the company be bound to expend more in reinstatement than it would have cost
to reinstate such property as it was at the time of occurrence of such loss or damage or more
than the sum insured thereon.
i) Average : if the property hereby insured shall at the time of any loss or damage be
collectively of greater value than the sum insured thereon, then the insured shall be considered
as being his own insurer for the difference, and shall bear a rateable proportion of the loss or
damage accordingly. Every item, if more than one of the policy , shall be separately subject to
this condition.
j) Subrogation: The insured and any claimant under this policy shall at the expense of
the company do or concur in doing or permit to be done all such acts and things that
may be necessary or reasonably required by the company for the purpose of enforcing
any rights and remedies or obtaining relief or indemnity from other parties to which the
company shall be or would become entitled or subrogated upon the company paying for
or making good any loss or damage under this policy whether such acts and things shall
be or become necessary or required before or after the insureds’ indemnification by the
company.
k) Arbitration If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under the
policy (liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other
questions be referred to decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to
or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to or if
they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration the
same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be
appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed
by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the
provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to arbitration
as herein before provided, if the company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in
respect of this policy.
It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right
of action or suit upon this policy that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of the
loss or damage shall be first obtained."
l) Disclaimer: It is also hereby expressly agreed and declared that if the company shall
disclaim liability to the insured for any claim hereinunder and such claim shall not within 12
calendar months from the date of such disclaimer have been made the insured subject matter of
a suit in a court of law, then the claim shall be for all purposes be deemed to have been
abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
m) Observation of Terms and Conditions: The due observation and fulfillment of the
terms, conditions and endorsement of this policy in so far as they relate to anything to be done
or complied with by the insured shall be a condition precedent to any liability of the company
to make any payment under this policy.
n) Renewal Notice: No sum payable under this policy. The company shall not be bound to
accept any renewal premium nor give notice that such is due.
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
The Company shall not be liable in respect of-
i) Excess applicable in each section.
ii) Loss or damage caused by depreciation or wear and tear and consequential losses.
iii) a. Loss ,Damage, liability or expenses whether direct or indirect occasioned by
happening through or arising from any consequence of war, Invasion, act of foreign enemy,
hostilities (whether war be declared or not) , Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection
warlike operation , military or usurped power or Civil commotion or loot or pillage in
connection therein.
b. Accident arising due to carrying of illegal activity and or any kind of unlawful act. .Loss
or damage or liability arising out of violation of any Rules and Regulations of the Govt. or
Statutory authorities.
iv) a) Loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by or arising from or inconsequence of or
contributed to by nuclear weapon materials.
b) This insurance does not cover loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by or
arising from or in consequence of or contributed to by ionizing radiations or
contamination by radio activity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or
from the combustion of nuclear fuel or from any nuclear weapons, materials. For the
purpose of this exclusion only the combustion shall include any self sustaining process
of nuclear fusion
v) Terrorism: loss, damage cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by
resulting from or in connection with any act of terrorism regardless of any other cause or event
contributing concurrently or in any sequence to the loss. Loss, damage cost or expenses of
whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by resulting from or in connection with any
action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to action taken in
respect of any act of terrorism unless otherwise specifically included.
( For the purpose of this exclusion an act of terrorism means an act including but not limited to
the use of force or violence and/or the threat thereof of any person or group(s) of persons
whether acting alone or on behalf of or in connection with any organization(s) or government(s)
committed for political, religious, ideological or similar purpose including the intention to
influence any government and/or to put the Public or any section of the public in fear.
If the company alleges that by reason of this exclusion any loss , damage, cost or expense is not
covered by this insurance the burden of proving the contrary shall be upon the insured.
In the event any portion of the endorsement/exclusion is found to be invalid or unenforceable ,
the remainder shall remain in full force and effect.)
DEFINITION
The terms Burglary and or Housebreaking shall mean theft involving entry into or exit from the insured
premises by forcible and violent means or following assault or violence or threat thereof to the insured
or member of the insureds’ family.
SECTION-I: FIRE AND SPECIAL PERILS (FOR BUILDING AND
CONTENTS- Excluding Money and Valuables)
The company will indemnify the insured in respect of loss of or damage to the building/
contents whilst contained in the insureds’ premises by-
a. Fire,
b. Lightning,
c. Explosion/Implosion.
d. Aircraft and other Aerial devices or Articles dropped there from.
e. Riot, strike & malicious damage
a. Storm,, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest , Hurricane, Tornado, Flood and
Inundation.
b. Impact damage by any Rail/Road vehicle or Animal.
c. Subsidence and landslide including rock slide
d. Bursting and/or Overflowing of water tanks, apparatus or pipes.
e. Missile testing operation
f. Leakage from automatic sprinkler installations
g. Bush Fire
h. Earthquake Fire & Shock.
Extensions:
The insurance by this policy applies also to contents in so far as such property is not otherwise
insured whilst temporarily removed and during transit as accompanied baggage anywhere in
India to other premises used for temporary residence by the insured or any member of the
insureds’ family permanently residing with him or at other premises wherein the insured shall
have placed any of such property in safe during his temporary absence from the insured
premises during any period not exceeding in the aggregate, one hundred and twenty (120) days
in any one period of insurance, provided that the liability of the company in respect of property
so removed shall not exceed one tenth (1/10) of the total sum insured under this section.
Special Exceptions :
The Company shall not be liable in respect of
a. Damage or destruction by or through or in consequence of subterranean fire
and the burning of property by order of any public authority.
b. Damage to property occasioned by its own undergoing any heating or drying
process.
c. Natural heating or spontaneous combustion and its own fermentation.
d. Loss, destruction of or damage to boilers (other than domestic boilers),
economizers or other vessels, machinery or apparatus or their contents resulting
from their own explosion/implosion and or caused by centrifugal forces.
e. Damage to any electrical machine, apparatus, fixture or fitting (including
electric fans and other electrical installation, arising from or occasioned by
over-running excessive pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self-heating or leakage
of electricity from whatever cause (lightning included) provided that this
exemption will apply only to the particular electrical machine, apparatus,
fixtures, fittings or portion of electrical installation so affected and not to other
machines, apparatus, fixtures, fittings or portion of electrical installation which
may be destroyed or damaged by fire so set up.
f. Normal cracking, settlement or bedding down of new structure, the settlement
or movement of made up ground, coastal or river erosion, defecting design or
workmanship or use of defective materials, demolition, construction, structural
alteration or repair of any property or ground work or excavations.
g. Destruction or damage caused by forest fire.
h. Loss/damage occasioned by or through or in consequence directly or indirectly
by burning whether accidental or other wise of forest and jungles and cleaning
of lands by fire.
i. Expenses necessarily incurred on (i) Architects, Surveyors and Consulting
Engineers’ fees and (ii) Debris Removal be the insured following a loss,
destruction or damage to the property insured by an insured peril in excess of
3% and 1% of the claim amount respectively
j. Loss , destruction or damage directly or indirectly caused to the property
insured by-
2. pollution or contamination which itself results from a peril hereby insured against.
3. Any perils hereby insured against which itself results from pollution or
contamination.
k. Loss or damage by spoilage resulting from the retardation or interruption or
cessation of an process or operation cased by operation of any of the perils
covered.
l. .Loss or Damage by theft or after the occurrence of any insured perils except as
provided under Riot, Strike, Malicious and Terrorism Damage cover.
m. Loss or damage to property insured if removed to any building or place other
than in which it is herein stated to be insured except machinery and equipments
temporarily removed for repair, cleaning, renovation or other similar purpose
for a period not exceeding 60 days.
n. Loss or Damage to livestock, motor vehicle and pedal cycles
o. Loss or damage to money, securities , stamps, bullion, deeds, bonds, bills of exchange,
promissory notes stock and share certificates, business books, manuscripts documents
or any kind unset precious stones and jewellery and valuables
Special Condition:
No one article other than furniture is deemed to be more than 5% of the Sum Insured
under this section unless separately specified and value stated.
Condition of Average :
If the property hereby insured shall at the breaking out of any fire or at the
commencement of any destruction of or damage to the property by any other peril
hereby insured against be collectively of greater value than the sum insured thereon
then the insured shall be considered as being his own insurer for the difference and
shall bear a rateable proportion of the loss accordingly.
Provided , however, that if the sum insured hereby on the property insured shall at the
breaking out of such fire or at the commencement of such destruction or damage be not
less than 85% (eighty five percent) of the collective value of the property insured, this
condition shall be of no purpose and effect
SECTION-II: BURGLARY AND HOUSEBREAKING (CONTENTS-
excluding money and valuables)
The company will indemnify the insured in respect of loss of or damage to the contents whilst
contained in the insured premises by Burglary and/or housebreaking
Special Exceptions:
The Company shall not be liable in respect of
i. Loss or damage by burglary and/or house breaking where any employee of the insured or member
of the insured's family is concerned as principal or accessory.
ii. Loss or damage to livestock, motor vehicles and pedal cycle.
iii. Loss or damage to money, securities for money, stamps, bullion, deeds, bonds, bills of
exchange, promissory notes stock and share certificates, business books, manuscripts documents of any
kind unset precious stones and jewellery and valuables unless specifically declared..
Extension:
The insurance by this policy applies also to contents in so far as such property is not otherwise
insured whilst temporarily removed and during transit as accompanied baggage anywhere in
India to other premises used for temporary residence by the insured or any member of the
insureds’ family permanently residing with him or at other premises wherein the insured shall
have placed any of such property in safe during his temporary absence from the insured
premises during any period not exceeding in the aggregate, one hundred and twenty (120) days
in any one period of insurance, provided that the liability of the company in respect of property
so removed shall not exceed one tenth (1/10) of the total sum insured under this section
SECTION-III- ALL RISKS (JEWELLERY AND VALUABLES)
The company will indemnify the insured or any member of the family in respect of loss or
damage to jewellery and valuables caused by accidental or misfortune whilst anywhere in
India. Provided that the liability of the company in respect of any one item in any one period of
insurance will not exceed the sum insured set against such item in the schedule hereto and not
exceeding in aggregate the total sum insured hereby. Provided further that where damage to
any item can be repaired, the company will pay expenses necessarily incurred to restore the
damage item to its former state of serviceability not exceeding the sum insured in respect of
such item.
It is expressly declared and agreed that the condition of average in so far as this section is
concerned is deemed declared.
Special Exceptions:
The company shall not be liable in respect of:-
i. loss or damage due to cracking, scratching or breakage of lens or glass whether part of
any equipment or otherwise or to china marble, gramophone records and other articles of brittle
or fragile nature unless such loss or damage arise from accident to railway, train or aircraft or
vehicle by which such property is being conveyed.
ii. Loss or damage caused by moth, mildew, vermin or any process of cleaning, dyeing,
repairing or restoring to which the property is subjected.
iii. Loss or damage caused by mechanical derangement or over winding of watches and
clocks.
iv. Theft from the car except from the car of fully enclosed saloon type having all the
doors, windows and other opening securely locked and properly fastened.
v. Loss or damage whilst being conveyed by any carrier under contract of affreightment.
Special Conditions:
i. where any item insured hereunder consists of articles in pair or set, the company’s liability in
respect thereof shall not exceed the value of any particular part or parts which may be lost or damaged
without reference to any special value which such article or articles may have as part of such pair or set
not more than a proportionate part of the insured value of the pair or set.
ii. No one article or pair of articles is deemed to be more than 10% of the sum insured under this
section unless separately specified and value stated.
SECTION IV: PLATE GLASS
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss or damage to the fixed plate glass
in the Insured premises by accidental breakage provided that the liability of the Company in
respect of any one loss or all losses in any one period of Insurance is limited to the sum set
against in the Schedule :
Special Exceptions :
The Company shall not be liable in respect of
i) 1% of sum insured subject to minimum of Rs. 500/-
ii) Breakage or damage during removal, alterations and/or repairs on or about the Insured
premises.
iii) Breakage of lettering unaccompanied by breakage or damage of glass.
iv) Breakage of or damage to frames or framework of any description, unless specifically
declared.
v) disfiguration or scratching or damage of glass other than fracture extending through the
entire thickness of glass.
vi) embossed, silvered, lettered, ornamental, curved or any glass whatsoever other than the
glass which is plain and or ordinary glazing quality, unless the same be specifically declared.
vii) breakage of glass not completely and securely fixed.
viii) loss or damage consequent upon interruption or delay of business or other loss damage or
injury arising from breakage of glass or during replacement thereof.
SECTION-V: BREAKDOWN OF DOMESTIC APPLIANCES
The Company will indemnify the Insured against unforeseen and sudden physical damage
caused by and/or solely due to mechanical and or electrical breakdown of domestic electrical,
electronics or mechanical appliances, apparatus or gadgets specified in the schedule whilst
contained in or fixed at the Insured Premises. Provided that the liability of the Company in
respect of any one item in any one period of insurance will not exceed the sum insured set
against such item in the schedule.
Special Provisions :
1) Sum Insured :
It is a requirement of this section that the sum insured in respect of such item
specified in the schedule shall be equal to cost of the replacement of the Insured
property of the same kind and capacity which shall mean its replacement cost including
freight custom duties and erection cost.
If the Sum insured is less than the amount to be insured as above, the Company
will pay for damage in such proportion as the Sum Insured bears to the replacement
cost. Every item, if more than one, shall be subject to this condition separately.
2) Basis of Indemnity :
Where the damage to an insured item can be repaired the Company will pay expenses
necessarily incurred to restore the damaged item to its former state of serviceability. If the cost
of repair exceeds the actual value of the insured item immediately before the occurrence of the
damage the settlement shall be made on the basis provided for in (b) as below :
Incase of total loss, claims will be paid subject to depreciation of 10% per year from the
date of purchase. The maximum depreciation however, shall not exceed 50% of sum insured of
the item in respect of which a total loss claim is admitted under the Policy
Special Exceptions :
The Company shall not be liable in respect of
i. An excess stated in the policy schedule , 1% of sum insured subject to minimum of Rs.
250/- for each and every loss.
ii. Loss or Damage caused by or arising out of willful act or willful gross negligence of the
insured.
iii. Loss or Damage due to faults existing at the time of commencement of this insurance
and known to the insured regardless of whether such faults or defects were known to the
company or not.
iv. Loss or Damage for which the manufacturers or suppliers of the property are
responsible thereby or under contract.
v. Loss or Damage to any insured item occasioned by permanent or temporary
dispossession resulting from confiscation commandeering or requisition by any lawfully
constituted authority of such item or by permanent or temporary dispossession of any building
resulting from the unlawful occupation by the insured of the building/premises.
vi. cost of transport to the repair shop and back to the insureds’ premises of any insured
item arising out of any damage to such item.
vii. Loss of or damage to any insured item by perils which are insurable under other section
of this policy.
SECTION-VI: TELEVISION SET
The company will indemnify the insured in respect of:-
1 Loss of or damage to the Television apparatus described in the schedule whilst contained
or fixed in the insureds’ premises by.
:
a. Fire, lightning, explosion of gas in domestic appliance
b. Bursting and overflowing of water tanks, apparatus or pipes
c. Aircraft or article dropped therefrom.
d. Riot Strike or malicious act
e. Earthquake (fire & / or shock)
f. Flood, inundation storm, tempest, typhoon, hurricane, tornado or cyclone
g. Burglary and /or House Breaking or theft..
h. Accidental external means
i. Mechanical or electrical breakdown.
Provided that the liability of the company in respect of such loss or damage in any one period of
insurance is limited to the amount specified in the schedule.
2. All sums which the insured shall be legally liable to pay as compensation and litigation
expenses incurred by the insured with the company’s written consent in respect of accidental
death of or bodily injury to a person other than a member of the insured’s family or a person
under the insured’s services and/or accidental damage to property not belonging to or in the
custody or under control of the insured or any member of the insured’s family or person
under the insured’s services arising out of accident happening through or in connection with
the television apparatus or to breakdown or defect in the television apparatus or breaking or
collapse of the internal fittings or mast forming part of television apparatus provided that the
liability of the company in respect of such compensation and litigation expenses in any one
period of insurance is limited to Rs. 25,000/- (twenty five thousand only).
3. Damage to property belonging to or in the custody or control of the insured caused by
breakage or collapse of the antenna fittings or must forming part of the television apparatus in
so far as such property is not otherwise insured, provided that the liability of the company in
respect of such damage in any period of insurance is limited to Rs. 3000/- (rupees three
thousand only).
Definition:
The term television apparatus as used herein shall mean and include the television set, the
accessories forming part of the set and antenna both external and internal.
Special Exceptions:
The company shall not be liable in respect of-
a.1% of sum insured subject to minimum of Rs. 500/- for each loss.
b. loss or damage to external antenna or fittings by theft.
c. Loss or damage caused by or arising out of or traceable to erection, repairing or dismantling of
the television apparatus.
d. Loss of or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of television apparatus is responsible
either by law or contract.
e. Liability assumed by the insured by agreement unless such liability could have attached to the
insured not withstanding such agreement.
SECTION VII - PEDAL CYCLES
Sub-Section: A. The company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss of or damage to Pedal
Cycles belonging to the insured by:
a. Fire, lightning, External explosion.
b. Riot Strike or malicious act
c. Earthquake (fire & / or shock)
d. Flood, inundation storm, tempest, typhoon, hurricane, tornado or cyclone
e. Burglary and /or House Breaking or theft..
f. Accidental external means
Provided that the liability of the company in respect of loss or damage to any one pedal cycle in any one
period of insurance will not exceed the sum set against such pedal cycle in the schedule
Sub-Section :B. The company will indemnify the insured in respect of all sums which the insured shall
become legally liable to pay as compensation and litigation expenses incurred by the insured with the
companys’ written consent for accidental death or bodily injury to any person other than a member of
the insureds family or a person in the insureds’ service or being conveyed on such pedal cycle and/or
accidental damage to property not belonging to or in the custody or control of the insured or any
member of the insureds’ family or not being conveyed on such pedal cycle in the event of accident
caused by or happening through or in connection with pedal cycle insured hereunder provided that the
liability of the company in respect of such compensation and litigation expenses in any one period of
insurance is limited to Rs. 10,000/-(rupees ten thousand ) only.
Special Exceptions:
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:-
i. Any accident. Loss , damage or liability caused by or through or in connection with Pedal Cycle
whilst it is being used for hire or reward or outside India.
ii. damage caused by overloading or strain or mechanical breakdown.
iii. Loss or damage to accessories by theft unless the entire Pedal Cycle is stolen at the same time.
iv. Loss or damage occurring whilst being used for racing or pace making or speed tests.
v. The first Rs. 10/- (ten) of each and every loss arising under sub section A hereof through
accidental external means. If , however, the loss of damage exceeds Rs. 10/- the company is liable to
pay full for such loss or damage.
Special Condition:
The Pedal Cycle should be properly locked when left unattended.
SECTION VIII: BAGGAGE
The company will indemnify the insured and/or such members of his/her family as are permanently
residing with him/her in respect of personal baggage accompanying the insured and/or his family
members belonging to him/her or for which he/she is responsible whilst traveling anywhere in India
whilst on tour on holidays employees. lost , destroyed or damaged by accident or misfortune
Provided that the liability of the company in respect of property so lost , destroyed or damaged shall be
limited to its actual value at the time of happening of such loss but not exceeding in any one period of
insurance in respect of each of the several items specified in the schedule, the sum set opposite thereto
respectively.
Special Exceptions :
The Company shall not be liable in respect of-
a. loss or damage due to cracking, scratching or breakage of lens or glass whether part of
any equipment or otherwise or to China marble gramophone records and other articles of a
brittle or fragile nature unless such loss or damage arises from accident to vessel, trains,
vehicles or aircraft by which such property is conveyed.
b. Loss or damage caused by moth, mildew, vermin or any process of cleaning, dyeing,
repairing or restoring to which the property is subjected.
c. Loss of or damage to any electrical machine, apparatus, fixtures or Fittings( including
wireless sets and tape recorders) arising from over running excessive pressure, short circuiting ,
arching , self heating or leakage of electricity from whatsoever cause (lighting included).
d. Loss or damage caused by mechanical derangement or over winding of watches and
clocks.
e. Theft from car except from the car of fully enclosed saloon type having all the doors,
windows and other opening securely locked and properly fastened.
f. Loss or damage whilst being conveyed by any carrier under contract of affreightment.
g. Loss of or damage to money, securities, manuscripts, deeds, bonds, bills of exchange,
promissory notes, stock of shares certificates, stamps, business books or documents, jewellery,
watches, furs, precious stones, gold and silver ornaments, travel tickets, cheques and bank
drafts.
h. Loss of or damage to articles which did not form part of the contents of any of the
packages when the journey commenced unless specifically declared and accepted by the
company.
i. Loss , destruction of or damage to articles of consumable nature.
..
j. Loose articles such as sticks, straps, umbrellas, sunshades, fans, deck chairs, property in
use on the voyage and/or journey or articles or cloths whilst being worn on the persons or
carried about.
k. Loss , destruction or damage caused by or arising from the leakage, spilling or exploding
of liquids, oils or materials of a like nature or articles of a dangerous or damaging nature.
l. Any tour or travel undertaken within the municipal limits of the village, town or city
wherein the insured is permanently residing.
SECTION IX: PERSONAL ACCIDENT
If the insured or such members of his/her family permanently residing with him/her all
between the age of 16 to 65 years named in the schedule shall sustain bodily injury solely and
directly caused by accidental violent external and visible means resulting in death or
disablement as stated hereinafter the Company shall pay to the insured or insured person or
his/her assignee or his/her legal personal representatives, the sum or sums hereinafter set forth
that is to say :
1. If such injury shall within 12 calendar months of its occurrence be the sole and direct
cause of the death of the insured person, the capital sum insured stated in the schedule
hereto applicable to such insured person.
2. If such injury shall within12 calendar months of its occurrence be the sole and direct
cause of the total and irrecoverable loss of
a) sight of both eyes or of the actual loss by physical separation of the two
entire hands or two entire feet or one entire hand and one entire foot or of such
loss of sight of one eye and such loss of one entire hand or one entire foot the
capital sum insured stated in the schedule hereto applicable to such insured
person.
b) use of two hands or two feet or of one hand and one foot or of such loss
of sight of one eye and such loss of use of one hand or one foot, the capital sum
insured stated in the schedule hereto applicable to such insured person..
3. If such injury within 12 calendar months of its occurrence be the sole and/or direct
cause of the total and irrecoverable loss of
(i) the sight of one eye or of the actual loss by physical separation of one
entire hand or one entire foot, fifty percent (50%) of the capital sum insured
stated in the schedule hereto applicable to such insured person.
(ii) total and irrecoverable loss of use of a hand or a foot without physical
separation fifty percent (50%) of the Capital Sum Insured stated in the Schedule
hereto applicable to such Insured Person.
NOTE : For the purpose of clauses (2) and (3) above physical
separation of a hand or foot means separation at or above the wrist and
or of the foot at or above the ankle respectively.
4. If such injury shall as a direct consequence thereof immediately permanently totally
and absolutely disable the Insured Person from engaging in any employment or
occupation of any description whatever, then a lump sum equal to hundred percent
(100%) of the Capital Sum Insured stated in the Schedule hereto applicable to such
Insured Person.
5. If such injury shall within Twelve (12) calendar months of its occurrence be the sole
and direct cause of the total and irrecoverable loss of use of the actual loss by physical
separation of the following then the percentage as indicated below of the Capital Sum
Insured applicable to such Insured Person shall be payable.
Percentage of
Capital Sum
Insured
i) Loss of toes-all 20
great-both phalanges 5
great-one phalanx 2
other than great,
if more than
one toe lost : each 1
ii) Loss of hearing - both ears 50
iii) Loss of hearing - one ear 15
iv) Loss of four fingers
& thumb of one hand 40
v) Loss of four fingers 35
vi) Loss of thumb - both phalanges 25
- one phalanx 10
vii) Loss of index - three phalanges 10
finger
- two phalanges 8
- one phalanx 4
viii) Loss of Middle- three phalanges 6
finger - two phalanges 4
- one phalanx 2
ix) Loss of ring - three phalanges 5
finger - two phalanges 3
- one phalanx 2
x) Loss of little - three phalanges 4
finger - two phalanges 3
- one phalanx 2
xi) Loss of - first or second 3
metacarpals - (additional)
- third, fourth or 2
fifth (additional)
xiii) Any other permanent Percentage
partial disablement as assessed
by the doctors
6. If such injury shall be the sole and direct cause of temporary total disablement then so
long as the Insured Person shall be totally disabled from engaging in any employment
or occupation of any description whatsoever a sum at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the Capital Sum Insured stated in the Schedule hereto per week but in any case not
exceeding Rs.5000/- per week in all under all Policies.
Provided that the compensation payable under the foregoing Clause (6) shall not be
payable for more than 104 weeks in respect of any one injury calculated from the date
of commencement of disablement and in no case shall exceed the Capital Sum Insured
stated in the Schedule hereto applicable to such Insured Person.
7. In the event of death of the Insured Person due to accident as defined in the Policy
outside his/her residence the Company shall reimburse expenses incurred for
transportation of the Insured Person’s dead body to the place of residence subject to a
maximum of 2% of the capital sum insured applicable to such Insured Person or
Rs.2,500/- whichever is less. This also include funeral expenses.
Special Exceptions:
Provided always that the Company shall not be liable under this Policy for
a) Compensation under more than one of the foregoing Benefits in respect of the same
period of disablement except under clause (6)..
b) .Any other payment after a claim under one of the benefits (1) (2) (3) or (4) has been
admitted and become payable.
c) Any payment in case of more than one claim under the Policy during any one period of
Insurance by which the maximum liability of the Company in that period would exceed the
sum payable under Benefit (1) of this Policy.
d) payment of weekly compensation until the total amount shall have been ascertained and
agreed.
e) Death or disease arising from-
i) from intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide.
ii) whilst under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs
iii) whilst engaging in aviation or whilst mounting in or dismounting from or travelling in
any aircraft other than as passenger (fare paying or otherwise) in any duly licensed standard
type of aircraft anywhere in the world
iv) directly or indirectly caused by venereal diseases or insanity
v) arising or resulting from the Insured committing any breach of the law with criminal
intent.
vi) whilst engaged in big game hunting.
f) Payment of compensation in respect of death injury or disablement of the Insured
Person due to or arising out of directly or indirectly connected with or traceable
to War invasion Act of foreign enemy Hostilities (whether war be declared or
not) Civil War Rebellion Revolution Insurrection Mutiny Military or Usurped
Power Seizure Capture Arrests Restraints and Detainments of all kings Princes
and people of whatever nation condition or quality so ever.
g) Payment of compensation in respect of death of or bodily injury to the Insured
Person :
i) directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or arising from
ionising radiations contamination by radio activity from any nuclear fuel or
from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purpose of
this exception combustion shall include any self-sustaining process of nuclear
fission.
ii) directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or arising from
nuclear weapons material.
h) Death or disablement resulting directly caused by contributed to or aggravated
or prolonged by childbirth or pregnancy or in consequence thereof.
CUMULATIVE BONUS
Compensation payable under para 1, 2, 3 and 4 above of this section, viz, death, loss of limbs or sight
and permanent total disablement arising out of accidental injuries shall be increased by 5% thereof in
respect of each completed year during which this section shall have been in force prior to the
occurrence of an accident for which capital sum become payable but amount of such increase shall not
exceed 50% of the Capital Sum Insured stated in the schedule herein.
This clause shall not in any way alter the annual character of the insurance nor the right of the company
to decline to renew or to cancel this section as hereinafter provided
The earned cumulative bonus will not be lost if the policy is renewed within 30 days after its expiry.
SECTION X:
(a) PUBLIC LIABILITY &
(b) EMPLOYEES COMPENSATION
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of sums which the insured shall become
legally liable to pay as a private householder occupying the premises specified in the schedule
(subject to the sum set in the schedule) :
a) As compensation and litigation expenses incurred by the insured with the companys’
written consent in respect of accidental death of or bodily injury to any person other than a
Person under the Insureds’ service and/or accidental damage to property caused by or through
the fault or negligence of the insured or of any member of the insureds’ family or household
permanently residing with him whilst caused during the performance of any act in connection
with the insureds’ business but not exceeding in all for compensation and litigation expenses
upto the limit of Rs. 25,000/-(rupees twenty five thousand) for any one accident or a series of
accidents arising from any one event and for all accidents during any one period of insurance.
b) As compensation to his employee engaged in the insured premises under the Fatal
Accident Act,1855, Workmens’ Comensation Act 1923 or any amendment thereto or common
law in respect of death of or bodily injury to such employees arising out of and in the course of
employment.
Special Exceptions :
The Company shall not be liable in respect of injury or damage arising out of or incidental to :
i. Excess applicable 0.25% of AOO limit subject to minimum of Rs. 1000/- maximum of
Rs. 1,00,000/- for each and every loss for public liability & Employees Compensation nil.
ii. Insureds’ profession or business.
iii.. The carrying out of alterations, additions, repairs or decorations to the premises
specified in the schedule.
iv. liability assumed by the insured by agreement unless such liability would have attached
to the insured not withstanding such agreement.
v. . accidents directly or indirectly caused by traceable to or arising out of the ownership
possession or the custody by or on behalf of the insured of animals vehicles , aircraft ,
ship, boats or crafts of any kind.
Further as regards Workmens compensation cover is concerned, the company shall not be
liable for any interest and/or penalty imposed on the insured on account of failure to comply
with the requirements laid down under the Workmens Compensation Act 1923 and subsequent
amendments of the said Act.
Please examine the policy and see that it is prepared according to your instruction. If not it
should be returned forthwith for rectification.
Date: Authorised Signatory
For and on behalf of National Insurance Company Limited
Addresses of –
Customer Relationship Management Department
Regional Office:
Head Office: Pradip Building ( 7th Floor)
6A, Middleton Street
Kolkata-700071
office of the Insurance Ombudsman