ID: user_sme_insurance_sample
FILE: sme_insurance_sample.pdf
========================================================================

SBI General Insurance Company Limited
SME Package Insurance Policy
Key Features Document (KFD)
Introduction
This prospectus gives basic information about the SME Package Insurance Policy that You can purchase
from Us, i.e. the SBI General Insurance Company. The SME Package Insurance Policy provides insurance
cover for physical loss or damage to, or destruction
of, Insured Property relating to Your business.
This policy is meant for enterprises where the total value at risk across all insurable asset classes at one
location does not exceed ₹ 5 Crore (Rupees Five Crore) at the policy commencement date.
What is the Insurance Cover ?
In this KFD, You will find information about the following insurance covers:
SECTION I – STANDARD FIRE AND ALLIED PERILS ( As per SBI General Bharat
Sookshma Udyam Suraksha)
1. Standard Cover: We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction caused to the building and
structures, plant and machinery, stock and other assets relating to Your business. These are the
Insured Properties.
If any Insured Property is lost, damaged or destroyed, We provide cover as follows-
Your loss Condition We pay, but not more than the Sum
Insured
Any Insured Property is You have repaired such Cost of repairs
damaged (Partial Loss) property.
If any Insured Stock is Extent of the loss of such Partial
damaged (Partial Loss) Loss
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: 9th Floor, Wing A & B, Fulcrum, Sahar Road, Andheri
(East), Mumbai – 400099 |CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Tel.:1800-22-1111 | customer.care@sbigeneral.in |
www.sbigeneral.in | SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under
license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN:
SME Package Insurance Policy – Key Feature Document 1
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
Any Building or Plant and Machinery You have rebuilt thRee biunisltdaitnegm enotr / Replac ement Vareluines (tia.ete d
or Furniture, Fixture,Fittings is /replaced such property. amount at which the Insured Property can
completely destroyed (Total Loss) be reinstated or replaced by a
similar property, without
deducting depreciation)
Stock is completely destroyed (Total a) For raw material: Landed Cost at
Loss) Your Premises,
b) For stock in process: Input Cost of the
stock at the time of damage,
c) For finished stock: the Manufacturing
Cost of the finished stock or the
Contract Price of goods sold
but not delivered.
Any Building, Plant and Machinery, You have not rebuilt the Market Value (Reinstatement Value
Furniture, Fixture and Fittings is building or reinstated less Depreciation)
completely other property.
destroyed (Total Loss)
i. You must commence the repairs, reinstatement or reconstruction within a reasonable time after the
date of damage or destruction. You must complete the repairs or reinstatement within 12 months
from the date of damage or destruction or within such time as We may allow.
ii. In all cases, We will not pay more than the relevant Sum Insured.
iii. We will pay only to the extent required to bring the Property to a condition substantially the same
as, but not superior, better or more extensive than its condition if it were new on the date it is
damaged or destroyed.
iv. You can reconstruct the new building on the same site, or another site. If You reconstruct the new
building on another site, We will not pay You more than what We would pay to reconstruct on the
same site.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
22
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
1. In-built Covers: Under the Standard Cover, We also pay the following:
In-built Cover Details
1. Additions, alterations or Property that You erect, acquire or add during the Policy Period is
extensions covered upto 15% of the Sum Insured for that item (excluding stocks).
2. Stocks floater basis Loss to stocks located at more than one named location.
on
3. Temporary Loss to stock temporarily removed to other premises for fabrication,
removal of processing or finishing upto 10% of value.
stocks
4. Cover for Cover for Money upto ₹50,000 ( Rupees Fifty Thousand) during the
policy period, cover for documents such as deeds, manuscripts,
Specific Contents
business books, plans, drawings, securities etc. upto ₹50,000 (Rupees
Fifty Thousand) during the policy period, cover for computer
programmes, information and data upto ₹5 Lakh (Rupees Five Lakh)
during the policy period and cover for personal effects of employees,
Directors and visitors upto ₹15,000 (Rupees Fifteen Thousand) per
person for a maximum of 20 persons during the policy period.
5. Start-Up Expenses Start-up cost incurred by You in respect of insured risk consequent
upon a loss or damage due to insured events upto
₹ 1 Lakh (Rupees One Lakh).
6. Professional Reasonable fees of architects, surveyors engineers and consulting
fees upto 5 % of the claim amount.
7. Cost for Removal Reasonable expenses for removal of debris upto 2 % of the claim
amount.
of debris
8. Costs compelled Municipal Additional cost of reconstruction of property incurred solely for
Regulations by complying with municipal regulations. The total amount recoverable
under any item of the policy shall not exceed the sum insured
thereby
SECTION II – BURGLARY INSURANCE
The Company will indemnify the Insured against
1. Loss or damage to the property described in the Schedule by Burglary or Housebreaking (theft
following upon an actual forcible and violent entry of or exit from the premises by the person or
persons committing such theft) or Hold-up.
2. Any damage to the premises described in the Schedule hereto following upon or occasioned by an
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
23
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
actual forcible and violent entry of or exit from the premises or any attempt thereat by the person or
persons committing or attempting to commit such theft,
Company will (subject to the terms exceptions and conditions contained herein or endorsed hereon)
pay or make good to the Insured such loss to the extent of the intrinsic value of the property so lost or
such damage to the property so sustained.
Provided that the liability of the Company shall in no case exceed in respect of each item the sum
expressed in the Schedule hereto to be insured thereon or in the whole the total Sum Insured hereby.
Which unexpected events does it Cover?
We pay for the physical loss, damage or destruction caused to Insured Property by the following
unforeseen events occurring during the Policy Period.
The events covered are given in the Column A and those not covered in respect of these events are given
in Column B.
SECTION I – STANDARD FIRE AND ALLIED PERILS (As per SBI General Bharat
Sookshma Udyam Suraksha)
Sr No Column A Column B
We cover physical loss or damage, or We do not cover loss or damage, or destruction
destruction caused to the Insured Property caused to the Insured Property by
by
1. Fire, including due to its own fermentation, caused by
or natural heating or spontaneous a. its undergoing any heating or drying
combustion. process, or
b. burning of Insured Property by order of any
Public Authority.
2. Explosion or Implosion a. caused to boilers, economizers or other
vessels, machinery or apparatus in which
steam is generated, or their contents,
resulting from their own explosion or
implosion, or
b. caused by centrifugal forces.
3. Lightning
-
4. Earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other -
convulsions of nature
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
24
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
5. Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, -
Hurricane, Tornado, Tsunami, Flood and
Inundation,
6. Subsidence of the land on which Your caused by
Premises stand, Landslide, Rockslide a. normal cracking, settlement or bedding
down of new structures,
b. the settlement or movement of made up
ground,
c. coastal or river erosion,
d. defective design or workmanship or use of
defective materials, or
e. demolition, construction, structural
alterations or repair of any property, or
ground works or excavations.
7. Bush fire, Forest fire, Jungle fire, -
8. Impact damage of any kind, i.e., damage a. caused by pressure waves caused by aircraft
caused by impact of, or collision caused by, or other aerial or space devices travelling at
any external physical object (e.g. vehicle, sonic or supersonic speeds,
falling trees, aircraft, wall etc.)
b. b)caused by vehicle, animal or aircraft
belonging to or owned by Insured or their
employee while acting in course
of employment.
9. Missile testing operations -
10. Riot, Strikes, Malicious Damages caused by
a. total or partial cessation of work or the
retardation or interruption or cessation of
any process or operations or omissions of
any kind,
b. temporary or permanent dispossession,
confiscation, commandeering, requisition or
destruction by order of the government or
any lawful authority, or
c. temporary or permanent dispossession of any
Building by unlawful occupation by any person.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
25
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
11. Acts of terrorism Exclusions as per Terrorism Clause attached.
(Coverage as per Terrorism
Clause attached)
12. Bursting or overflowing of water tanks, -
apparatus and pipes,
13. Leakage from automatic sprinkler a. repairs or alterations in the Building in which
installations. Your Business is located,
b. repairs, removal or extension of any sprinkler
installation, or
c. defects in the construction known to
You.
14. Theft within 7 days from the if it is
occurrence of, and proximately a. of any article or thing outside Your
caused by, any of the above Insured Premises, or
Events b. of any article or thing attached from the
outside of the outer walls or the roof of
Your Premises, unless securely
mounted.
Examples
1. Your insured building catches fire. All its doors are opened for fighting the fire. A person takes advantage of
the situation and carries away insured electronic equipment. Since this theft follows a fire and is within 7
days of occurrence of the fire, We will pay for Your loss upto the limits of the applicable Sum Insured for
that equipment.
2. During riots, a rioter breaks a window of Your shop and takes away articles of value ₹ 35,000. It costs ₹
20,000 to repair the window. Here the loss is due to theft which occurred within 7 days of occurrence of
the riot, which is an insured event. It arose at a time when You were not in a position to protect Your
property. We will pay ₹ 35,000 for the loss of articles, and ₹ 20,000 for repairs of the window, but not
more than the Sum Insured.
SECTION II – BURGLARY INSURANCE (Optional)
We cover loss or damage to the property by Burglary or Housebreaking or Hold-up and any damage to the
premises following upon or occasioned by an actual forcible and violent entry of or exit from premises by
attempting or committing theft by person.
Standard Add-on cover
You can purchase the following standard Add-on cover under SME Package Insurance
Policy. You must apply for this cover, and pay additional premium, as required.
1. Declaration policy for Stocks
You can opt for a Declaration policy to take care of frequent fluctuations in stocks/ stocks value subject to
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
26
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
certain conditions. Read the Policy and understand these conditions. Note: The above add on cover is
applicable to Section I
Which property can be covered under this policy?
This policy covers the following properties in Your premises, that is, the place You carry on Your business.
The properties must be located in Your premises, except some
properties that You declare, and the Policy covers in special situations. The SME Package Insurance Policy
covers the following properties.
1. Any building or structure in Your premises where You carry on Your business. It may be a shed, flat,
house, unit of a building. It may be made of any material. It includes:
i. Basement (if any), all fixtures and fittings permanently attached to the floor, walls or roof
like electrical wiring, antennas etc.
ii. The following ‘additional structures’ located on Your Premises and used for Your
Business, that are shown in the Policy Schedule:
a. garage, out-houses, security sheds, towers, verandah or porch, tanks,
compound walls, retaining walls, fences and gates, internal roads,
b. lifts, hoists,
c. solar panels, wind turbines and air conditioning systems, central heating
systems, security systems and cameras, electrical installations, fire alarm, fire
sprinkler systems, power lines, power installations, or
d. water, gas and sewage pipeline within the premises
iii. any other structure shown in the Policy Schedule.
2. Plant and Machinery, that is, all equipment, machinery, pipes and cables, spares, computers, servers
and preloaded licensed system software, located within any structure or in the open area of Your
premises. It includes
i. machines under repair,
ii. machines taken on hire or lease, or any system of purchase of goods,
iii. foundation, bedding or setting of the machines, or
iv. accessories of machines.
3. Stock of goods or merchandise. It may be:
i. finished goods, semi-finished goods, stock in process, stock invoiced and ready for
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
27
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
dispatch,
ii. raw materials, packing materials,
iii. stock accepted for job work for which You are responsible,
iv. stock held in trust for which You are responsible,
v. stock in Open in the Insured Premises.
4. All other assets, that is, all other tangible property located in Your premises and used for Your
business. It includes
i. furniture and fixtures, office equipment, telephone equipment, electronic equipment,
computers etc,
ii. canteen and kitchen equipment, gym and permanent sports equipment etc.
Who can purchase this Policy?
1. You can purchase the SME Package Insurance Policy for the building or structure if
i. You own it, or occupy it under a lease,
ii. You occupy it as purchaser under an agreement of sale or lease,
iii. You are an occupier authorised under any law,
iv. Your property is occupied by a tenant, a licensee or Your employee, or
v. You are a tenant under an agreement in writing and are liable to repair it.
2. You can purchase the SME Package Insurance Policy for plant and machinery, stock or other
property if
i. You own it, or use it under a lease in writing,
ii. You hold it in trust or on commission or are responsible for it,
iii. You have taken plant and machinery or other contents on hire or lease, or any other
system of purchase,
iv. You have accepted stock for job work for which You are responsible.
3. You are eligible to purchase the SME Package Insurance Policy
i. if You carry on any business of manufacturing or production of goods, or of providing
or rendering services, and
ii. if You own or are legally responsible for Your business, and
iii. if the value of all Your insurable assets at one location is NOT more than
₹ 5 Crore (Rupees Five Crore) at the Policy Commencement Date. These include buildings,
plant and machinery, stock, and all other assets, even if You have not taken insurance
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
28
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
cover for all of them. Insurable assets include all assets which You own, or hold as tenant
or occupant, or hold in trust or commission, or are legally responsible for.
4. If the value of all Insurable Assets exceeds ₹ 5 Crore (Rupees Five Crore) during the Policy Period,
this SME Package Insurance policy will be replaced with the applicable policy on expiry of this policy.
Basis of Indemnity
Applicable to Section I:
1. The maximum amount: The maximum amount We pay under this Policy is the total Sum Insured.
The maximum amount We pay under this Policy for any cover, or any item, or category or group of
items, is the Sum Insured for that cover or item, category or group. The Sum Insured for each cover
is as per Policy Schedule
2. Basis of Sum Insured:
i. For Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture and Fittings and any other
contents: Reinstatement Value.
ii. For Stocks:
a. For raw material: Landed Cost at Your Premises.
b. For stock in process: Input Cost of the stock at the time of damage,
c. For finished stock: the Manufacturing Cost of the finished stock or the Contract Price
of goods sold but not delivered and more precisely defined below.
d. Contract Price is in respect only of goods sold but not delivered, for which You are
responsible and with regard to which under the conditions of the sale, the sale
contract is cancelled by reason of any damage insured under this Policy either wholly
or to the extent of the damage. The Company’s liability shall be based on the
Contract Price.
iii. Bullion or unset precious stones, any curios or works of art or obsolete machinery and the
like are to be covered on Agreed Value basis subject to a valuation certificate being
submitted and found acceptable by Us..
3. Restoration of Sum Insured:
If We have paid any loss on Your claim, it reduces the Sum Insured. When We pay You the full Sum
Insured for any cover or any item covered, the Policy ends to that extent. If You pay proportionate
premium for the unexpired policy period, We will restore the policy to the full original amount of
Sum Insured during the Policy Period. This ensures full cover during the period of the policy.
However, in case You, immediately on occurrence of loss, exercise Your option not to restore the
Sum Insured, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of loss.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
29
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
Example
Applicable to Section II:
Basis of indemnity:
1. If You repair Your air-conditioning tower insured for ₹ 15,00,000 damaged in a fire, and We pay
Your claim of ₹ 5,00,000, You can pay proportionate premium for ₹ 5,00,000 for unexpired period
in order to take benefit of full cover. If the tower is destroyed, and We pay Your claim of ₹
15,00,000, the new tower that You install will not be covered under this Policy unless You have paid
premium for it.
2. If Your building insured for ₹ 2,00,00,000 is severely damaged and We pay You ₹ 2,00,00,000
under the SME Package Insurance Policy for its repair and reinstatement, You will not be covered
under this Policy for the new building that You construct, unless You have paid premium for it.
A. The indemnity in respect of building and contents, other than stock and stock-in- trade, shall be
on the basis of reinstatement value or market value, as opted by the Insured. In respect of stock
and stock-in-trade, it shall be on market value.
B. In the event of property insured being damaged by any of the specified perils, the Company
shall pay for the amount of damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the damaged
property.
If the Company at its option, reinstates or replaces the property damaged or destroyed, or any part
thereof, instead of paying the amount of the loss or damage, or join with any other company or
Insurer(s) in so doing, the Company shall not be bound to reinstate exactly or completely but only as
circumstances permit and in reasonably sufficient manner, and in no case shall the Company be bound
to expend more in reinstatement than it would have cost to reinstate such property as it was at the
time of the occurrence of such loss or damage nor more than the Sum Insured by the Company thereon.
If the Company so elects to reinstate or replace any property the Insured shall at his own expense
furnish the Company with such plans, specifications, measurements, quantities and other particulars as
the Company may require, and no acts done, or caused to be done, by the Company with a view to
reinstatement or replacement shall be deemed an election by the Company to reinstate or replace.
Underinsurance
Applicable to Section I
Underinsurance waiver upto 15%: This is a special feature of the SME Package Insurance Policy, where
We waive underinsurance up to 15%.
The Sum Insured for each item of Insured Property must be sufficient to pay for Reinstatement /
Replacement of that Property on the date of loss. If the Reinstatement
/ Replacement Value of the Insured Property, in totality, including additions, alterations, erections and
new acquisitions, is more than the Sum Insured, except to the extent waived i.e 15%, it amounts to
underinsurance and will reduce proportionate to the difference, the amount that We will pay for Your
claim. Every item of Insured Property is subject to this condition separately.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
210
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
If at the time of the damage the Sum Insured applying to the relevant Buildings, Plant and Machinery,
Furniture, Fixture, Fittings, Stocks and other Contents is less than 85% of the value of Insurable Assets
You will be responsible for the difference and You will bear a proportionate share of the loss.
Examples (These examples only demonstrate the effect of underinsurance. Final claim payable may vary
due to application of Excess and other policy terms)
1. You have taken insurance for a Sum Insured of ₹ 5 Crore. The value at risk of insurable items at the time
of loss is found as ₹ 5.5 Crore. There is a loss of ₹ 1 crore. Underinsurance works out to 9 % . Since it is
less that 15%, We will consider the full claim of 1 Crore for payment.
2. Your factory has stored stock of finished goods. Its manufacturing cost is ₹ 2.5 Crore. This includes
some stock that is older than 6 months. Your SME Package Insurance policy covers stock of finished
goods for ₹ 3 Crore. Due to change in raw material price, the manufacturing cost of same amount of
stock on the date of loss is ₹
3.25 Crore. The stock of manufacturing cost ₹ 1 Crore is burnt in fire. Since underinsurance works out to
less than 15%, We will consider the full claim of ₹ 1Crore for payment.
3. Your shop has the SME Package Insurance Policy. You have insured the structure for ₹ 3 Crore and stock
for ₹ 1 Crore. The actual value of structure is ₹ 3.5 Crore and value of stock is ₹ 1.5 Crore. Stock of
₹ 50 Lakh is burnt in a fire. The stock has underinsurance of 33.33% and hence, we could consider Your
claim for payment of ₹ 33.33 Lakh only (66.67% of ₹50 Lakh) by applying underinsurance.
Applicable to Section II:
If at the time of any loss or damage happening to any property hereby insured there be any other
subsisting insurance or insurances, whether effected by the Insured or by any other person or persons
covering the same property, this Company shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than its rateable
proportion of such loss or damage.
Exclusions, that is, what We do not pay
We do not cover losses or expenses, or any loss, damage to, or destruction of the Insured Property,
directly or indirectly as a result of or if caused by or arising from events, stated below:
• Specific Exclusions Applicable to Section I:
1. i. Excess of ₹ 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand) for each claim. This means that We will deduct ₹ 5000
(Rupees Five Thousand) for each and every loss suffered by You under the terms of this policy.
ii. For terrorism risk the Excess shall be as per the clause attached to this policy.
2. Loss, damage or destruction to any electrical/electronic machine, apparatus, fixture, or fitting by
over-running, excessive pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self- heating or leakage of electricity from
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
211
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
whatever cause (lightning included). This exclusion applies only to the particular machine so lost,
damaged or destroyed. However, any ensuing loss or damage to other insured property due to
operation of an insured peril is covered.
3. Loss, destruction or damage to the stocks in cold storage premises caused by change of
temperature.
4. Loss, or damage by spoilage resulting from the retardation or interruption or cessation of any
process or operation caused by operation of any of the Insured Events.
5. Your Premises or any Insured Building remaining continuously unoccupied for a period of more
than 30 days, unless You have obtained prior written approval from Us and such approval is
recorded as an endorsement on the Policy.
6. Loss, destruction or damage to bullion or unset precious stones, any curios or works of art unless
such amount is declared separately and recorded in the Policy Schedule.
7. Loss of any Insured Property which is missing or has been mislaid, or its disappearance cannot be
linked to any single identifiable Insured Event.
8. Loss or damage to any Insured Property removed from Your Premises to any other place, except
i. machinery and equipment temporarily removed for repairs, cleaning, renovation or other
similar purposes for a period not exceeding 60 days,
ii. Stock covered under Clause (C) (4.3) of this Policy.
9. Any reduction in market value of any Insured Property after its repair or reinstatement.
10. Loss or damage to any Insured Property or any claim which is covered by a marine policy in force
at the time of loss or damage, except in excess of the limits of that policy.
11. Costs, fees or expenses for preparing any claim.
• Specific Exclusions applicable to section II:
This Section of the Policy does not cover the following unless specially mentioned in the
Schedule:-
1. The first 5% of each and every claim subject to minimum of Rs.5,000/- in respect of each and every loss
arising out of Burglary. This will apply per event.
2. Loss or damage by fire or explosion however caused (covered under Fire and Special Perils Section)
3. Loss or damage where any inmate or member of the Insured’s household or of his business staff or any
other person lawfully in the premises is concerned in the actual theft of or damage to any of the articles
or premises or where such loss or damage has been expedited or in any way assisted or brought about by
any such person or persons.
4. Loss or damage occasioned by loot, sack, spillage or pilferage.
5. Unexplained losses, shortages due to error or omissions, losses discovered when making an inventory
or a periodic stock taking or loss resulting from the Insured's voluntarily parting with title or possession
of any property or induced to do so by deception.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
212
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
6. Loss or damage which either in origin or extent or directly or indirectly proximately or remotely,
occasioned by or contributed to by or which either in origin or extent directly or indirectly, proximately
or remotely, arise out of or in connection with earthquake, volcanic eruption, typhoon hurricane,
tornado, cyclone, or other convulsion of nature or atmosphere disturbance. In any action, suit or other
proceedings, where the Company alleges that by reason of this exclusion any loss or damage is not
covered by this insurance, the burden of proving the contrary shall be upon the Insured.
7. Theft or Burglary caused by use of the duplicate or original key, unless the key is obtained by force.
8. Permanent or temporary dispossession resulting from confiscation, commandeering or requisition by
any lawfully constituted authority.
• General Exclusions Applicable to Section I and Section II:
1. Your deliberate, wilful or intentional act or omission, or of anyone on Your behalf, or with Your
connivance.
2. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or war-like operations (whether war is declared or
not), civil war, mutiny, civil commotion amounting to a popular rising, military rising, rebellion,
revolution, insurrection or military or usurped power.
3. Ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear
waste from combustion of nuclear fuel, or the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous
properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear component that is part of it.
4. Pollution or contamination, unless
i. the pollution or contamination itself has resulted from an Insured Event, in which case
only physical damage to the Insured Property is covered, or
ii. an Insured Event itself results from pollution or contamination.
5. Any consequential or indirect loss or damage of any description, i.e. losses or extra costs (financial
or non-financial) that follow or are a consequence of an Insured Event, like, loss by delay, loss of
income or wages or earnings, or of market, or of time, medical expenses, or any costs not
covered by this Policy.
Premium
The premium is the amount You pay Us for this insurance. The Policy Schedule shows the amount of
premium for the Policy Period and all other taxes and levies. Your policy will commence on payment of
premium in full.
The premium is arrived at basis the following steps:
1. The starting base rate would be arrived for each covered risk, from the rating schedule
2. Various risk factors would be analyzed in detail by the underwriters and the risk adjusted rate would be
arrived after application of the risk factors adjustments on the starting base rate. The risk factors to be
analysed are obtained from the standard proposal form for this product.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
213
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
3. The risk adjusted rate so arrived would be applied on the sums insured of covered property to as arrive
at the Risk Adjusted premium.
4. Additional premium in respect of Terrorism would be charged as per the guideline provided by the
National Terrorism Pool Manager from time to time.
5. Additional premium in respect of Add-on covers would be charged for the selected
Add-on covers .
6. The premium for the risk would be the sum total of Risk Adjusted premium + Terrorism Premium+ Add-
on cover premium (if opted) + Burglary Section Premium. This premium would be the gross premium
which is subjected to commission/brokerage as per IRDA regulations from time to time.
7. If there is no acquisition cost (for example direct client) an additional reduction up to 10% may be
considered on the total premium.
8. Goods & Service Tax (GST as applicable) would be levied on the premium.
How long does this cover protect me?
You can opt upto 1 years.
Changes and Cancellation
1. Changes during Policy Period.
You can choose to make changes to the covers of this Policy, for example, take additional cover, or
increase or reduce any Sum Insured. You must make a proposal or request for any change. It will be
effective only after We have accepted Your proposal, and You have paid the additional premium where
applicable.
2. Cancellation at any time: You can cancel the policy at any time during the policy period by giving
notice to Us in writing.
If You cancel the Policy, We will refund premium as follows
Time for which Policy in force Refund of premium
Not exceeding 15 days 90%
Not exceeding 1 month 85%
Not exceeding 2 months 70%
Not exceeding 3 months 60%
Not exceeding 4 months 50%
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
214
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
Not exceeding 5 months 40%
Not exceeding 6 months 30%
Not exceeding 7 months 25%
Not exceeding 8 months 20%
Not exceeding 9 months 15%
Exceeding 9 months NIL
3. We can cancel the policy.
We will not cancel the Policy during the policy period except on the grounds of misrepresentation,
non-disclosure of material facts, fraud or non-co-operation on Your part.
4. Policy ends automatically:
i. If Your property is lost, destroyed or stolen, or its cost of repair is more than the Sum
Insured, and We have paid You the entire Sum Insured for that property and You have
decided not to restore the Sum Insured.
ii. Change of ownership of Your property
iii. Sale of Your Property
Making a claim
1. If You suffer a loss because of an Insured Event, You must make a claim for Your financial loss at
Your cost.
2. When You suffer loss or damage to any Insured Property, You must
i. give notice to Us immediately along with details of the event and Your loss,
ii. report to police, fire authorities or other appropriate legal Authorities or as guided by
Us,
iii. take all reasonable steps to prevent further damage to Insured Property,
iv. You must not sell, give away or dispose of any damaged items of any property,
v. You must not carry out repairs unless such repairs are urgent and You cannot
contact Us,
vi. preserve and collect evidence, take and preserve photographs,
vii. assist Us and Our representatives in collecting evidence and details about Your loss, give
Us all information, books of accounts, and other documents,
viii. submit claim form at the earliest opportunity but within 30 days from date You first
notice the loss or damage
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
215
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
ix. prove that the Insured Event has happened and prove the extent of Your loss.
Can I make changes to this policy?
You can choose to make changes to the covers of this Policy as may be permitted.
You must make a proposal or request for any change. It will be effective only after we have accepted Your proposal,
and you have paid the additional premium where applicable.
How can I obtain this Policy?
You can contact any agent of the company or an intermediary or other approved distribution channel, visit
Our website for information on this product including whether it is available online, call Our call center or contact
Our office near to You.
How can this policy be renewed?
This policy will expire on end of the Policy Period. If You wish to renew the Policy, You must apply for renewal before
the end of the Policy Period and pay the required premium amount.
Renewal of this policy is not automatic, We may seek relevant information from You for the purpose of renewal. We
can reject Your renewal only on grounds on Misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts, fraud, or non-co-
operation on Your part.
Where can I find the details of the Cover?
We have given above the broad features of the SME Package policy. If You choose this policy, Your transaction with Us
will have legal implications. Please also read the ‘Prospectus’. Further, detailed terms and conditions of this cover will
be stated in a legal document called the ‘Policy’. It is therefore important to read the Prospectus and the Policy.
How do I get copies of the Prospectus and the Policy?
• You can read these two documents on Our website www.sbigeneral.in
• You can download them from Our website.
• You can send email to customer.care@sbigeneral.in and ask for copies. We will email to You soft copies.
• You can get copies from any branch of Our Company.
This Key feature Document (KFD)
This KFD gives only information. This is not an insurance contract. Each insurance cover is subject to terms
and conditions, which You can read in the SME Package Insurance Policy document. You must read the
policy document to know the insurance cover fully. You can get a copy of the SME Package Insurance
Policy from Our branch or from Our website www.sbigeneral.in. For legal interpretation the policy
document will hold.
Grievances
In case of any queries the insured person may contact the company through
Level-1- Toll free :1800 22 1111 / 1800 102 1111/E- mail: customer.care@sbigeneral.in/For Senior
Citizens:seniorcitizengrievances@sbigeneral.in
Level-2: head.customercare@sbigeneral.in
Level-3 : gro@sbigeneral.in In case, you are not satisfied with the decision / resolution provided by above
authorities you may register your complaint with IRDAI by visiting the below site:
ttps://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/Home/Home
In case, you are not satisfied with the decision / resolution provided by above authorities you may approach the
insurance ombudsman falling in your jurisdiction for redressal of your grievance at
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
216
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
(https://www.cioins.co.in/Ombudsman For any communications with respect to the Insurance Contract you can
contact our nearest branch office or write to us at “SBI General Insurance Company Limited”. 9th Floor, A&B Wing,
Fulcrum Building, Sahar Road, Andheri East, Mumbai - 400099
Disclaimer: In the event of any question relating to interpretation of the insurance coverage, the
policy document will prevail.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited. Registered and Corporate Office: “Natraj” 301, Junction of Western Express Highway &
Andheri Kurla – Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 069|CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546 | Toll free: 18001021111 |
customer.care@sbigeneral.in | www.sbigeneral.in | For more details on the risk factor, terms, and conditions, please refer to
the Sales Brochure and Policy Wordings carefully before concluding a sale| SBI Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and
used by SBI General Insurance Company Limited under license | IRDAI Reg No: 144 |UIN: IRDAN144RP0003V03201415
SME Package Insurance Policy– Key feature Document
217