ID: user_family-shield8c0003ff45fd68ff8a0df0055f0bf
FILE: family-shield8c0003ff45fd68ff8a0df0055f0bfd98.pdf
========================================================================

which a payment can be made to renew or continue a
FAMILY SHIELD
policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such as
PART II OF THE POLICY SCHEDULE waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases.
Coverage is not available for the period for which no
1. PREAMBLE premium is received.
8. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient
care and day care treatment of illness and/or injuries and
This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by ICICI
which has been registered as a hospital with the local
Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
authorities under the Clinical Establishments
(hereinafter called the ‘Company’) to the proposer
(Registration and Regulations) Act 2010 or under
mentioned in the schedule (hereinafter called the ‘Insured’) enactments specified under the Schedule of Section
to cover the person(s) named in the schedule (hereinafter 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum
called the ‘Insured Persons’). The policy is based on the criteria as under:
statements and declaration provided in the proposal Form a. Has qualified nursing staff under its
employment round the clock;
by the proposer and is subject to receipt of the requisite
b. Has at least 10 in-patient beds, in those towns
premium.
having a population of less than 10,00,000 and
15 inpatient beds in all other places;
c. Has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge
2. DEFINITIONS
round the clock;
d. Has a fully equipped operation theatre of its
Certain words are used in the policy and this Policy Schedule,
own where surgical procedures are carried out;
which have a specific meaning and are shown below. They
e. Maintains daily records of patients and will
have this meaning wherever they appear in the Policy. Where make these accessible to the Insurance
the context so permits, references to the singular shall also Company's authorized personnel.
include references to the plural and references to the male 9. Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a
gender shall also include references to the female gender, minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘In-patient Care’
hours except for specified procedures/ treatments,
and vice versa in both cases.
where such admission could be for a period of less than
24 consecutive hours.
i. STANDARD DEFINITIONS -
10. Illness means a sickness or disease or pathological
condition leading to the impairment of normal
1. Accident means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary
physiological function and requires medical treatment.
event caused by external, visible and violent means.
a. Acute condition - is a disease, illness or injury
2. Cashless facility means a facility extended by the
that is likely to respond quickly to treatment
insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs
which aims to return the person to his or her
of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance
state of health immediately before suffering the
with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made
disease/illness/injury which leads to full
to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-
recovery.
authorization is approved.
b. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is
3. Condition Precedent means a policy term or condition
defined as a disease, illness, or Injury that has
upon which the Insurer's liability under the policy is
one or more of the following characteristics
conditional upon.
- It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring
4. Deductible means a cost sharing requirement under a
through consultations, examinations,
health insurance policy that provides that the insurer will
checkups, and / or tests
not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of
- It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of
indemnity policies and for a specified number of
symptoms
days/hours in case of hospital cash policies, which will
- It requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the
apply before any benefits are payable by the insurer. A
patient to be specially trained to cope with it
deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured.
- It continues indefinitely
Deductible shall be applicable per year, per life or per
- It recurs or is likely to recur
event as stated in the policy certificate and specific
11. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding
benefit based deductible shall be applied if specified in
illness or disease solely and directly caused by external,
the policy certificate.
violent, visible and evident means which is verified and
5. Disclosure to Information Norm means that the policy
certified by a Medical Practitioner.
shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be
12. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from
forfeited to the Company in the event of
a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any
misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of
prescription or follow up prescription
any material fact.
13. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an
Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for
6. Emergency Care means management for an illness or
medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on
injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly
the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are
and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a
no more than would have been payable if the Insured
medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long
Person had not been insured and no more than other
term impairment of the insured person’s health
hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have
7. Grace Period means the specified period of time
charged for the same medical treatment.
immediately following the premium due date during
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
14. Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same
registration from Medical Council of any State or Medical condition for which the Insured Person’s
Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Hospitalization was required, and
Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a b. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such
State Government and is thereby entitled to practice Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance
medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the Company.
scope and jurisdiction of his license. The term Medical 23. Reasonable and Customary Charges means the
Practitioner would include physician, specialist, charges for services or supplies, which are the standard
anesthetist and surgeon but would exclude the Insured charges for the specific provider and consistent with the
Person and his/her Family Members. prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical
15. Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance or similar services, taking into account the nature of the
policyholders (including all members under family cover illness / Injury involved .
24. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of
and members of group health insurance policy), to
insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a
transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and
provision of grace period for treating the renewal
time bound exclusions, with the same insurer
continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
16. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all
tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in waiting periods.
hospital which: 25. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or
a. is required for the medical management of the operative procedure(s) required for treatment of an
illness or injury suffered by the insured illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects,
b. must not exceed the level of care necessary to diagnosis and cure of diseases , relief from suffering and
provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care
care in scope, duration, or intensity; centre by a medical practitioner.
c. must have been prescribed by a medical 26. Unproven/Experimental treatment means the
practitioner; treatment including drug experimental therapy which is
d. must conform to the professional standards widely not based on established medical practice in India , is
accepted in international medical practice or by treatment experimental or unproven
the medical community in India.
17. Network Provider means Hospitals or health care
providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an ii. SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS -
insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an
insured by a Cashless Facility. 1. Adventure Sport means sports/activities including but
18. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a not limited to Sky Diving, Bungee Jumping, Bungee
claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized swoop, Bungee slingshot, Dune sliding, Hot air
modes of communication. ballooning, Bridge Swinging, Zip Lining, Zip Trekking,
19. Pre Existing Disease means any condition, ailment, Rock Climbing, Bicycle Polo, Bamboo rafting, Rock
injury or disease: Scrambling, Rappelling, Via Ferrata, Fell Running, Fell
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 Walking, Gorge Walking, Indoor Rock Climbing,
months prior to the effective date of the policy Mountain Biking, Mountaineering, Body Boarding,
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or Sailing, Ski boarding, Scuba Diving, Snorkeling, Shark
b. For which medical advice or treatment was Diving, Sky Diving, Swimming with Dolphins, Banana
recommended by, or received from, a physician boating/donuts/inflatable’s behind power boat Diving
within 48 months prior to the effective date of the with Whales, Wakeboarding, Surfing, Auto (car) racing,
policy or its reinstatement. Motor rallying, Motorcycle racing, Air racing, Kart racing,
20. Portability means the right accorded to an individual Boat racing, Hovercraft racing, Lawn mower racing,
health insurance policyholder (including all members Snowmobile racing, Zorbing, and Truck racing Bodies
under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre- or organizations conducting any such adventure sports
existing conditions and time bound exclusions, from one must be recognized and licensed by Government
authorities.
insurer to another insurer.
2. Age means the completed years on last birthday as per
21. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means
the English calendar calculated on the day of inception
medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number of
of cover under the Policy.
days immediately after the insured person is discharged
from the hospital provided that:
3. Air Ambulance means a specially equipped aircraft,
a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same
typically a helicopter, which is equipped with life saving
condition for which the insured person’s
medications, CPR equipments, cardiac monitoring unit
Hospitalization was required, and
and qualified EMS personnel, used to transport injured
b. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such
people to Hospital in an emergency.
Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance
Company
4. Ambulance Charges means transportation costs
22. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical
incurred by the insured person towards availing
expenses incurred during predefined number of days
ambulance services from the site of Accident to the
preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person,
nearest Hospital or from the site of first treatment to the
provided that:
nearest higher center of care in case of life threatening
emergency conditions.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
entitled for a benefit for all days of hospitalization (up to
5. Assault means any unlawful use of force inflicted by an the sum insured).
individual(s) upon an Insured Person that is a criminal
offence in the jurisdiction in which it occurs and which 13. Healthcare Service Provider Agreement means an
results in Injury to the Insured Person. agreement prescribing the terms and conditions of
services which may be rendered to the holders of health
6. Break in policy means the period of gap that occurs at insurance policies of Insurance company and may be
the end of the existing policy term, when the premium entered into between:
due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before a. Service provider and an insurer; or
the premium renewal date or within 30 days thereof. b. Service provider, a TPA and the insurer
7. Child means dependent child/children including adopted 14. Immediate Family Member means spouse, children,
and step child/children of the Insured Person up to the step or adopted children, brother(s), sister(s) and
age of twenty five (25) years and dependent on the parent(s) or stepparents of the Insured Person.
insured person for maintenance and financial support.
15. Intensive Care Unit: means an identified section, ward
8. Coma means a state of unconsciousness with no or wing of a hospital which is under the constant
reaction or response to external stimuli or internal needs. supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and
This diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of which is specially equipped for the continuous
the following: monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical
a. No response to external stimuli continuously for at condition, or require life support facilities and where the
least 96 hours; level of care and supervision is considerably more
b. Life support measures are necessary to sustain sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and
life; and other wards.
c. Permanent neurological deficit which must be
assessed at least 30 days after the onset of the 16. Insured Event means any event specifically mentioned
coma in the Policy Certificate as covered under this Policy for
d. The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist which premium is received by the Company.
medical practitioner. Coma resulting directly from
alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 17. Insured Person(s) means the persons named as
insured persons in the Policy Schedule who are insured
9. Common Carrier shall mean any commercial public for the applicable Benefits under this Policy.
airline, railway, bus transport, or water borne vessel
(which shall include ocean going and / or coastal vessels 18. Loan means the sum of money lent at an interest or
and / or vessels engaged for official or personal otherwise to the Insured Person by any bank/financial
purposes), taxi services or any other mode of transport institution as identified by the Loan Account Number
operating under license issued by the appropriate specified in the Policy Certificate or certified in writing by
authority for transportation of passengers and / or cargo the bank/financial institution.
and / or any other vehicle licensed to carry fare paying
passengers. 19. Nominee means the person(s) nominated by the
Insured Person to receive the Benefits payable under
10. EMI or EMI Amount means and includes the amount of this Policy on death.
monthly payment required to repay the principal amount
of Loan and interest by the Insured Person as set forth 20. Permanent Total Disablement means any of the
in the amortization chart. For the purpose of claim following:
settlement against any coverage under this Policy the a. Total and irrevocable loss of sight in both eyes, or
amortization schedule prepared by the financier as on b. Total and irrevocable physical separation of two
the loan disbursal date or risk inception date (whichever entire hands or two entire feet, or
is later) shall be considered wherever applicable. c. Total and irrevocable loss of one entire hand and
one entire foot, or
11. Family Member means an Insured Person's legally d. Total and irrevocable loss of sight of one eye and
wedded spouse, children, ward, step or adopted physical separation of one entire hand or physical
children, parents, stepparents , mother in law, father in separation of one entire foot, or Total and
law, children in law, legal guardian, siblings, and siblings irrevocable loss of use of two hands or two feet, or
in law e. Total and irrevocable loss of use of one hand and
one foot, or
12. Franchise means a per Insured event provision in the f. Total and irrevocable of loss of sight of one eye
policy whereby the insurer will not pay unless damage and loss of use of one hand or one foot.
(or loss) exceeds the specified number of
days/hours/months as defined in the Policy Certificate. For the purpose of this definition:
Once a franchise is met, the Sum Insured subject to the a. Physical separation of a hand or foot means
Benefit is payable as per terms and conditions. separation of the hand at or above the wrist, and
Illustration: If the customer opts for a Franchise of two of the foot at or above the ankle.
days and he is admitted in a hospital for one day the b. Loss of use or Loss of sight means total paralysis
benefit shall not be triggered. However, if the Insured is of one or more limb, or loss of vision respectively,
hospitalized for more than two days the Insured shall be which is certified in writing by a Medical
Practitioner to be permanent, complete and
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
irreversible and substantiated by physical 31. You / Your means person or the entity named as the
examination and investigation to be permanent, policyholder in the Policy Schedule and who is
complete and irreversible. responsible for payment of premium.
21. Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy
Schedule and any applicable endorsements or Benefits
attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains II. BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY
details of the extent of cover available to the Insured
Person, what is excluded from the cover and the terms This Policy is a contract of insurance between the
& conditions on which the Policy is issued to the Insured Policyholder and Us which is subject to the receipt of
Person.
premium against each Benefit in full (first installment in case
the customer has opted for Periodic Premium Payment
22. Policy Period means the period commencing from the
option) in respect of the Insured Persons and the terms,
Policy Start Date, Time and ending at the Policy End
Date, Time of the Policy and as specifically appearing in conditions and exclusions of this Policy.
the Policy Schedule during which the policy is valid and
Insured Person is liable to get a claim subject to waiting The customer may opt for any one or more base benefits
periods and policy terms and conditions under one or more sections Extensions may be opted only if
a base benefit under the respective section has been opted.
23. Period of Cover means the period specified in the
Customer shall be eligible for the base benefits and/or
Policy Certificate during which the insured Person is
extensions only if premium for the same is paid by the
covered under the Policy.
customer and accepted by Us. The Policy Certificate will
24. Policy Schedule means the Policy Schedule attached specify which of the following Basic Benefits and Extensions
to and forming part of the Policy. are applicable and in force for the Insured Person. Claims
made in respect of an Insured Person for any Benefit
25. Professional Sports means a sport which would
applicable to the Insured Person shall be subject to the
remunerate a player in excess of 50% of his or her
availability of the Sum Insured, applicable sub-limits for the
annual income as a means of their livelihood.
Benefit claimed as specified in the Policy Certificate and the
26. Proposal and Declaration Form means any initial or terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy.
subsequent declaration made by the policyholder and is
deemed to be attached and which forms a part of this All claims shall be made in accordance with the procedures
Policy. set out in this Policy. Admitted claims will be payable to the
While filling the proposal form, you are expected to Insured Person or the Nominee (as applicable).
provide all information pertaining to your health and to
the cover you would be opting/buying in this policy. Any
SECTION A: SPECIFIC INFECTIOUS DISEASES BENEFIT
non-declaration of information which insurance
Company should have known for underwriting this policy
SECTION A.1: SPECIFIC VECTOR BORNE DISEASE BENEFIT
can lead to cancellation of policy and Company will have
a right to forfeit the premium.
For the purpose of benefit under Section A.1 under this policy,
Specific Vector-Borne Disease means Malaria, Dengue,
27. Service Provider means any person, organization,
Chickungunya, Kala Azar, Japanese encephalitis, Zika Fever and
institution, company providing services in individual
Filariasis
capacity or through aggregation that has been
empanelled with the Insurance Company to provide
Benefit A.1.1: Base Benefit: Specific Vector Borne Disease
services specified under the benefits (including add-ons)
related Hospitalization Benefit
to the Insured Person on cashless or reimbursement
basis. These shall also include providers empanelled to
form a part of network other than hospitals We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
28. Sum Insured means the amount specified in the Policy Policy Certificate if an Insured Person is diagnosed with a Specific
Certificate against a Benefit or set of Benefits that Vector Borne Disease that solely and directly requires the Insured
represents Our maximum, total and cumulative liability Person to be Hospitalized during the Period of Cover.
for any and all claims made in respect of that Insured
Person during the Period of Cover under that Benefit/set
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
of Benefits.
29. Waiting Period means a time-bound exclusion period i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary
related to condition(s) specified in the Policy Certificate Treatment of the Specific Vector Borne Disease and is
which shall be served before a claim related to such commenced and continued on the written advice of the
condition becomes admissible. treating Medical Practitioner.
ii. The Insured Person’s stay in the Hospital should
30. We/ Our / Us means the ICICI Lombard General continue for a minimum period of 2 successive days.
Insurance Company Limited. iii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Benefit, if the Insured is first Hospitalized prior to the
commencement of the Period of Cover.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this ii. The Insured Person’s stay in Hospital should continue
Benefit, if the Insured Person is Hospitalized due to for a minimum period of 2 successive days
Specific Vector Borne Disease within a waiting period of iii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
30 days from the commencement of the Period of Cover. Benefit, if Hospitalization due to Rabies or Tetanus is
This exclusion shall cease to apply from the first prior to the commencement of the Period of Cover.
Renewal of the Insured Person’s cover under the Policy iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
with Us. Benefit, if hospitalization due to Rabies or Tetanus is
v. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this within a waiting period of 30 days from the
Benefit in respect of Pre-hospitalization Medical commencement of the Period of Cover. This exclusion
Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses. shall cease to apply from the first Renewal of the Insured
vi. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during Person’s cover under the Policy with Us.
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On v. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover Benefit in respect of Pre-hospitalization Medical
under this Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses.
immediately and automatically cease but insurance vi. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during
cover under any other applicable Benefits under this the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On
Policy during the Period of Cover shall continue subject the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover
to the availability of the Sum Insured and the terms, under this Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall
conditions and exclusions of the Policy. immediately and automatically cease but insurance
cover under any other applicable Benefits under this
Claims Documents for Section A.1.1: Policy during the Period of Cover shall continue subject
 Duly filled claim form to the availability of the Sum Insured and the terms,
 Hospital Discharge summary duly signed and attested conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
by treating doctor confirming the diagnosis and period of
Hospitalization
 In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge Claims Documents for Section A.2.1:
Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom  Duly filled claim form
the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of  Hospital Discharge summary duly signed and attested
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission by treating doctor confirming the diagnosis and period of
and Discharge from the Hospital Hospitalization
 Laboratory Reports confirming the diagnosis of Specific  In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
Vector Borne Disease, as follows: Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom
o Dengue - NS1 antigen test or Ig M- Elisa test the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of
o Malaria – Peripheral Smear Test confirming the Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission
presence of Malarial parasites and Discharge from the Hospital
o Chickungunya - Presence of IgM and IgG anti
chikungunya antibodies Benefit A.2.2: Basic Benefit: Rabies and Tetanus related
o Kala-Azar - Direct Agglutination Test or Rapid Death Benefit
dipstick test or ELISA for detecting IgG,
Anemia, Leucopenia, thrombocytopenia and
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Hypergammaglobulinemia
Policy Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy Certificate
o Japanese encephalitis - Ig M antibody
if an Insured Person is diagnosed with Rabies or Tetanus
detection in serum or cerebrospinal fluid
o Zika Fever – PCR report confirming the occurring on account of an Injury from an Accident during the
diagnosis Period of Cover that solely and directly results in the Insured
o Filariasis - Antigen detection in blood sample or Person’s death within 15 days from the first laboratory diagnosis
IgG4 antibody detection using routine assays of the Insured Person contracting Rabies or Tetanus.
SECTION A.2: RABIES AND TETANUS BENEFIT This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
Benefit A.2.1: Basic Benefit: Rabies and Tetanus related
i. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Hospitalization Benefit
Benefit, if Rabies or Tetanus is first diagnosed prior to
the commencement of the Period of Cover
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
ii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Policy Certificate if an Insured Person is diagnosed with Rabies
Benefit, if Rabies or Tetanus is first diagnosed within a
or Tetanus occurring on account of an Injury from an Accident that
waiting period of 30 days from the commencement of the
solely and directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized
Period of Cover. This exclusion shall cease to apply from
during the Period of Cover.
the first Renewal of the Insured Person’s cover under the
Policy with Us.
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
iii. The first laboratory diagnosis of Rabies or Tetanus is
certified and attested by a registered pathologist, unless
i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary the death has occurred post admission in a Hospital and
Treatment of Rabies or Tetanus and is commenced and cause of death is certified by the Hospital as death due
continued on the written advice of the treating Medical to Rabies or Tetanus.
Practitioner.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
iv. On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit and any vi. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during
other applicable Benefit pertaining to the same event, all the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On
cover under this Policy in respect of the Insured Person the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover
shall immediately and automatically cease. under this Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall
immediately and automatically cease but insurance
Claims Documents for Section A.2.2: cover under any other applicable Benefits under this
Policy during the Period of Cover shall continue subject
 Duly filled claim form to the availability of the Sum Insured and the terms,
 Duly attested death certificate issued by municipal conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
authorities
 Cause of Death certificate from the treating physician
 Out- patient consultation paper wherever applicable Claims Documents for Section A.3.1:
 Indoor case papers of treating hospital, if available  Duly filled claim form
 Certificate from treating doctor confirming the diagnosis  Hospital Discharge summary duly signed and attested
by treating doctor confirming the diagnosis and period of
Hospitalization
SECTION A.3: SPECIFIC GASTRO INTESTINAL INFECTIONS  In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom
BENEFIT
the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission
For the purpose of benefit under Section A.3 under this policy,
and Discharge from the Hospital
Specific Gastro Intestinal Infections mean the following:
 Laboratory Reports confirming the diagnosis of Specific
Gastro Intestinal Infections, as follows:
Acute Inflammatory Diarrhoea – Acute onset, caused by invasive
o Acute Inflammatory Diarrhoea – Routine Stool
or noninvasive pathogens and their enterotoxins characterized by
Examination confirming the presence of RBCs
the following:
and Pus Cells in stools
 Watery Stools containing blood and pus cells, o Typhoid Fever - Presence of Salmonella Typhi
 Clinical signs of dehydration in Blood / Urine / Stool sample
 High grade fever
Typhoid Fever - An infection from Salmonella Typhi characterized
by the following: SECTION A.4: SPECIFIC VIRAL INFECTIONS BENEFIT
 Fever for more than 5 days,
 Presence of Salmonella Typhi bacteria in the blood and For the purpose of benefit under Section A.4 under this policy,
 Multi organ involvement Specific Viral Infections means Viral Hepatitis (Hepatitis A, B C
and E), Measles, Mumps, Poliomyelitis, Avian Influenza and
Benefit A.3.1: Base Benefit: Specific Gastro Intestinal
Swine Influenza
Infections Hospitalization Benefit
Benefit A.4.1: Base Benefit: Specific Viral Infections
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Hospitalization Benefit
Policy Certificate if an Insured Person is diagnosed with Specific
Gastro Intestinal Infections that solely and directly requires the We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Insured Person to be Hospitalized during the Period of Cover. Policy Certificate if an Insured Person is diagnosed with Specific
Viral Infection that solely and directly requires the Insured Person
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
to be hospitalized during the Period of Cover.
i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
Treatment of Specific Gastro Intestinal Infections and is
commenced and continued on the written advice of the
i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment
treating Medical Practitioner.
of Specific Viral Infection and is commenced and
ii. The Insured Person’s stay in Hospital should continue
continued on the written advice of the treating Medical
for a minimum period of 2 successive days
Practitioner.
iii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
ii. The Insured Person’s stay in Hospital should continue for
Benefit, if Hospitalization due to Specific Gastro
a minimum period of 2 successive days
Intestinal Infection is prior to the commencement of the
iii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Period of Cover.
Benefit, if Hospitalization due to Specific Viral Infection is
iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
prior to the commencement of the Period of Cover.
Benefit, if hospitalization due to Specific Gastro
iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Intestinal Infection is within a waiting period of 30 days
Benefit, if hospitalization due to Specific Viral Infection is
from the commencement of the Period of Cover. This
within a waiting period of 30 days from the
exclusion shall cease to apply from the first Renewal of
commencement of the Period of Cover. This exclusion
the Insured Person’s cover under the Policy with Us.
shall cease to apply from the first Renewal of the Insured
v. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Person’s cover under the Policy with Us.
Benefit in respect of Pre-hospitalization Medical
v. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses.
Benefit in respect of Pre-hospitalization Medical
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses. Benefit, if Hospitalization due to Specific Nervous System
vi. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during Infection is prior to the commencement of the Period of
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On Cover.
the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
under this Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall Benefit, if hospitalization due to Specific Nervous System
immediately and automatically cease but insurance cover Infection is within a waiting period of 30 days from the
under any other applicable Benefits under this Policy commencement of the Period of Cover. This exclusion
during the Period of Cover shall continue subject to the shall cease to apply from the first Renewal of the Insured
availability of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions Person’s cover under the Policy with Us.
and exclusions of the Policy. v. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
Benefit in respect of Pre-hospitalization Medical
Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses.
Claims Documents for Section A.4.1: vi. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during
 Duly filled claim form the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On
 Hospital Discharge summary duly signed and attested by the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover
treating doctor confirming the diagnosis and period of under this Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall
Hospitalization immediately and automatically cease but insurance cover
 In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge under any other applicable Benefits under this Policy
Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom during the Period of Cover shall continue subject to the
the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of availability of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission and exclusions of the Policy.
and Discharge from the Hospital
Claims Documents for Section A.5.1:
 Laboratory Reports confirming the diagnosis of Specific
Viral Infections, as follows:  Duly filled claim form
o Viral Hepatitis:  Hospital Discharge summary duly signed and attested by
 Hepatitis A - Positive HAV IgM antibody test treating doctor confirming the diagnosis and period of
 Hepatitis B – Positive HBsAg Test Hospitalization
 Hepatitis C – Positive HCV RNA test  In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
 Hepatitis E - IgG / IgM Antibody Test confirming Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom
diagnosis the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of
o Measles – IgG / IgM Antibody Test Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission
o Mumps – IgG / IgM Antibody Test and Discharge from the Hospital
o Poliomyelitis – Throat swab / Stool / CSF culture for  Laboratory Reports confirming the diagnosis of Specific
Poliovirus Nervous System Infection, as follows:
o Avian Influenza: Laboratory test of a Throat Swab o Meningitis: CSF Examination confirming the
confirming the diagnosis diagnosis of Meningitis
o Swine Influenza: Laboratory test of a Throat Swab o Encephalitis: EEG / MRI / CSF / Examination
confirming the diagnosis confirming the diagnosis of Meningitis
o Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease: MRI / CSF Examination
SECTION A.5: SPECIFIC NERVOUS SYSTEM INFECTIONS / Electroencephalography confirming the diagnosis
o Guillain–Barré syndrome: EMG / CSF Examination
BENEFIT
confirming the diagnosis
For the purpose of benefit under Section A.5 under this policy,
SECTION B – HOSPITAL DAILY CASH - ILLNESS
Specific Nervous System Infections means Meningitis,
Encephalitis, Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, Guillain–Barré B.1 Basic Benefit: Hospital Daily Cash Benefit
syndrome
If an Insured Person contracts an Illness or suffers an Injury due
Benefit A.5.1: Basic Benefit: Specific Nervous System
to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and which
Infections Hospitalization Benefit
solely and directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized,
then We will pay the daily amount specified in the Policy
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Certificate for each continuous and completed day of
Policy Certificate if an Insured Person is diagnosed with Specific
Hospitalization.
Nervous System Infection that solely and directly requires the
Insured Person to be Hospitalized during the Period of Cover. This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment
and is commenced and continued on the written advice of
i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment the treating Medical Practitioner and is fora minimum of
of Specific Nervous System Infection and is commenced continuous 24 Hours duration
and continued on the written advice of the treating ii. We shall not be liable to pay the daily amount for more than
Medical Practitioner. the maximum number of days specified in the Policy
ii. The Insured Person’s stay in Hospital should continue for Certificate for each period of Hospitalization within the
a minimum period of 2 successive days Period of Cover.
iii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
iii. Our liability to make any payment under this Benefit shall 1. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within
be in excess of the per event Deductible or per event the initial waiting period shall be excluded except
Franchise stated in the Policy Certificate, if applicable.
claims arising due to an accident, provided the same
iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
are covered.
Benefit, if Hospitalization commenced prior to the
commencement of the Period of Cover or within the waiting 2. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured
period specified in the Policy Certificate.
Person has Continuous Coverage for more than
v. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
twelve months.
Insured Person and the amount due under this claim and
claims already admitted under the Benefit in respect of the 3. The within referred waiting period shall be applicable
Insured Person will cumulatively lead to the Sum Insured
to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting
being exceeded then Our maximum, total and cumulative
higher sum insured subsequently
liability under any and all such claims will be limited to the
Sum Insured. 2. Pre-existing Diseases (Code – Excl 01) (Unless
specifically covered and mentioned in the policy certificate)
B.2 Extension: Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Cash Benefit
1. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing
If an Insured Person contracts an Illness or suffers an Injury due Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be
to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and which excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous
solely and directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized coverage after the date of inception of the first policy
in an Intensive Care Unit, then We will pay the daily amount with insurer.
specified in the Policy Certificate for each continuous and
2. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion
completed day of confinement in the Intensive Care Unit.
shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: increase.
3. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without
i. The Hospitalization in the Intensive Care Unit is for
any break as defined under the portability norms of the
Medically Necessary Treatment and is commenced and
continued on the written advice of the treating Medical extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then
Practitioner and is for a minimum of continuous 24 Hours waiting period for the same would be reduced to the
duration extent of prior coverage
ii. We shall not be liable to pay the daily amount for more
than the maximum number of days specified in the Policy 4. Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 24
Certificate for each period of Hospitalization within the months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the
Period of Cover. same being declared at the time of application and
iii. Our liability to make any payment under this Benefit shall accepted by Insurer.
be in excess of the Deductible stated in the Policy
Certificate. However, the Deductible shall not apply to the 3. Maternity (Code – Excl 18)
extent of days in respect of which the Insured Person has
already been admitted in the Hospital in a non- ICU room. a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth
iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections
Benefit, if Hospitalization commenced prior to the incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
commencement of the Period of Cover or within the
waiting period specified in the Policy Certificate. b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an
v. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
accident) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy
Insured Person and the amount due under this claim and
during the policy period;
claims already admitted under the Benefit in respect of
the Insured Person will cumulatively lead to the Sum
4. Cosmetic or plastic surgery (Code – Excl 08) - Expenses
Insured being exceeded then Our maximum, total and
cumulative liability under any and all such claims will be for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change
limited to the Sum Insured. appearance unless for reconstruction following an
Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically
EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO SECTION necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate
B health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a
medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending
We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under
Medical Practitioner
Section B of this Policy in respect of an Insured Person, directly
or indirectly for, caused by, arising from or in any way attributable
5. Investigation & Evaluation (Code – Excl 04)
to any of the following:
1. Expenses related to any admission primarily for
i. STANDARD EXCLUSIONS -
diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded
1. 30-day waiting period(Code – Excl 03) Any hospitalization
falling within the initial waiting period as specified in the 2. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not
policy certificate subject to a maximum of 30 days- incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are
excluded
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
6. Obesity/Weight Control (Code – Excl 06) - Expenses 12. Refractive Error (Code – Excl 15): Expenses related to
related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive
fulfil all the below conditions: error less than 7.5 dioptres
1. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the 13. Unproven Treatments (Code – Excl 16) - Expenses
Doctor related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies
for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven
2. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be
treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack
supported by clinical protocols
significant medical documentation to support their
3. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and effectiveness.
4. Body Mass Index (BMI); 14. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics,
spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as
1. greater than or equal to 40 or
a nursing home attached to such establishments or where
2. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic
of the following severe co-morbidities following reasons; (Code – Excl 13)
failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:
15. Dietary supplements and substances that can be
1. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy purchased without prescription, including but not limited to
Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless
2. Coronary heart disease
prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of
3. Severe Sleep Apnea hospitalization claim or day care procedure (Code – Excl
14)
4. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
16. Excluded Providers (Code – Excl 11)
7. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care(Code – Excl
05): Expenses related to any admission primarily for Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by
enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically
includes: excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website /
notified to the policy holders are not admissible. However,
I. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for in case of life threatening situations or following an
personal care such as help with activities of daily living accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are
such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by payable but not the complete claim.
skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.
31. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code – Excl
02) -Two Years Exclusions- (Unless the waiting period is
II. Any services for people who are terminally ill to
specifically waived off and mentioned in the policy certificate)-
address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the below listed
8. Hazardous or Adventure Sport (Code – Excl 09) (unless Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until
the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the
specifically covered and mentioned in Policy
date of inception of the first policy with us. This exclusion
certificate): Expenses related to any treatment
shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an
necessitated due to participation as a professional in accident.
hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion
para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase.
racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the
waiting period specified for pre-Existing diseases, then
diving, deep-sea diving.
the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
9. Change of Gender Treatments (Code – Excl 07) - d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical contracted after the policy or declared and accepted
without a specific exclusion.
management, to change characteristics of the body to
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any
those of the opposite sex
break as defined under the applicable norms on
10. Breach of Law (Code – Excl 10): Expenses for treatment portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the
same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured
f. List of specific disease/procedures -
Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law
i.Deviated Nasal Septum, CSOM-Chronic Suppurative
with criminal intent
Otitis Media
ii.Stapedectomy, Mastoidectomy, any treatment for
11. Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any
conditions related to tonsils, adenoids, sinuses,
addictive condition and consequences thereof. (Code –
turbinates/ concha
Excl 12):
iii.Fibroids (fibromyoma), Endometriosis, Uterine Prolapse,
Polycysyic Ovarian Syndrome(PCOS)
iv.Dilatation and curettage (D&C), Myomectomy,
Hysterectomy
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
v.Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism 9. Any Injury that has occurred prior to the commencement of
vi.Stones in gall bladder & Biliary System; Cholecystitis, Policy of Cover whether or not the same has been treated,
Fissure/fistula in anus, hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus,
or medical advice, diagnosis, care or treatment has been
piles, Esophageal Varices & Gastric Varices,
sought. Any Illness, complication or ailment arising out of
Gastritis, Duodenitis & Pancreatitis
or connected to such Injury.
vii.Gastric & Duodenal ulcers, Gastro Esophageal Reflux
Disorder (GERD)/Acid Peptic Disease, Ulcerative
10. Any external congenital anomalies.
colitis, Crohn's disease, Irritable Bowel Syndrome,
Inflammatory Bowel disease 11. Any event which occurs whilst the Insured Person is
viii.All forms of cirrhosis, Rectal prolapse, Perineal operating or learning to operate any aircraft or common
Abscesses, Perianal Abscesses
carrier, or performing duties as a member of the crew on
ix.Cholecystectomy, Endoscopy
any aircraft, or scheduled airlines or is engaging in aviation,
x.Stones in Urinary system, all prostate diseases, chronic
or whilst the Insured Person is mounting into, or
renal failure or end stage renal failure or chronic
kidney disease, dialysis dismounting from or traveling in any balloon or aircraft other
xi.Dysfunctional uterine bleeding, pelvic inflammatory than as a passenger (fare-paying or otherwise) in any
diseases, stress incontinence, Hydrocele, scheduled airline anywhere in the world
varicocele/ rectocele/ spermatocele
xii.Cataract, Glaucoma, Diseases of the vitreous and retina 12. Treatment by a Family Member and self-medication or any
xiii.Unless malignant, All Internal/ External tumors, cysts, treatment that is not scientifically recognized.
nodules, polyps, sinus, fistula, adenoma, lumps
including teratoma, breast lumps, dermoid cyst, 13. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or warlike
ovarian cyst, desmoid tumour, umblical granuloma, operations (whether war be declared or not) or civil
mucous cyst of lip/cheek commotion or rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny,
xiv.Diseases related to thyroid arrests, detainments of all kinds and political gatherings,
xv.All skin ailments
police, military, naval or air service, engaging in aviation
xvi.Ulcers of any kind (whether internal or external)
other than as a passenger (fare paying or otherwise) in any
including decubitus ulcers
licensed standard type of aircraft.
xvii.Varicose veins & Varicose ulcers
xviii.Intervertebral disc disorders , Arthroscopy, Spinal and
14. Death, disablement (whether of a permanent nature or of a
Vertebral Disorders including diagnosis as low back
temporary nature), Injury, Illness or Hospitalization arising
ache, Surgeries for joint replacements (except if
from or caused by ionizing radiation or contamination by
hospitalization is required due to an accidental
injury) radioactivity from any nuclear fuel (explosive or hazardous
xix. All Hernias (except if Hospitalization is required due form) or resulting from or from any other cause or event
to an Injury) contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the
loss, claim or expense from any nuclear waste from the
ii. SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS - combustion of nuclear fuel, nuclear, chemical or biological
attack.
1. Any physical, or medical condition or treatment or service
which is specifically excluded in the Policy Certificate under Claim Documents for Section B (Applicable for Benefit B.1
Special Conditions. and B.2)
2. All dental treatment or dental surgery of any kind unless
 On the occurrence of an Insured Event which may give rise
necessitated due to an Accident Any alternative treatments
to a claim under Section B of the Policy, We shall be
except treatment taken under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and provided with the following necessary and mandatory
Homoeopathy in a Government Hospital or any institute information and documentation specified in relation to the
recognized by the Government and/or accredited by Benefit being claimed within 30 days of the occurrence of
Quality Council of India / National Accreditation Board for the Insured Event: Duly filled claim form
 Hospital Discharge summary filled and attested by Hospital
Hospitals and Healthcare Providers.
 In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
3. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom
underlying diseases the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission
4. Any treatment received outside India. and Discharge from the Hospital
 First Information Report (F.I.R.) copy / Medico-legal case
5. Hormone replacement therapy.
papers - Notarized/ Attested by a gazetted officer in case
of an Injury
6. Routine medical, dental, eye and ear examinations is not
covered unless specifically covered and specified in the
SECTION C – ACCIDENTAL INJURY BENEFITS
Policy Certificate.
7. Any medical examination for the purpose of employment or Our maximum, total and cumulative liability for claims
travel. arising in respect of the Insured Person during the Period of
Cover under Benefits C.1.1, C.1.2, and C.1.3 shall be the Sum
8. Intentional self Injury, suicide or attempt to suicide.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Insured as specified against this set of Benefits in the Policy claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit and
Certificate. Benefit C.1.1 (Death Benefit) & C.1.3 (Permanent Total
Disablement (PTD) Benefit) in respect of the Insured
C.1.1 Base Benefit: Death Benefit Person shall immediately and automatically cease.
v. On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit,
insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
under this Policy whether in the present Period of Cover
Policy Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy
or any subsequent Period of Cover shall continue
Certificate if an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an
subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and the
Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
solely and directly results in the Insured Person’s death within
365 days from the date of the Accident. Claims Documents for Section C.1.2:
 Claim Form
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit and any other  MLC or FIR
applicable Benefit pertaining to the same event, all cover under  Police Final Charge Sheet / Court Final Order
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama
this Policy shall immediately and automatically cease in respect
 Disability Certificate issued by civil or government
of that Insured Person.
Hospital mentioning the details of the disability
 Indoor case papers, if available
Claims Documents for Section C.1.1:
 Medical Certificate
 Claim Form
 MLC or FIR
C.1.3 Base Benefit: Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD)
 Cause of Death Certificate and Death Certificate by
Benefit
municipal corporation
 Post Mortem Report
We will pay the percentage of the Sum Insured (specified
 Viscera / Chemical Analysis / Forensic Report
against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate) in the manner which
 Police Final Charge Sheet / Court Final Order
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama is specified in the table below if an Insured Person suffers an
 Indoor case papers, if available Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover
and that Injury solely and directly results in the Permanent
Partial Disablement of the Insured Person (which is of the
C.1.2 Base Benefit: Permanent Total Disablement (PTD)
nature specified in the table below) within 365 days from the
Benefit
date of the Accident.
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
For the purpose of this Benefit, Permanent Partial
Policy Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy Disablement means total and/or partial irrecoverable loss of
Certificate if an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an use or the actual loss by physical separation of the body parts
Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury as specified in the table below:
solely and directly results in the Permanent Total Disablement
of the Insured Person within 365 days from the date of the % OF
Accident. SR SUM
LOSSES COVERED
No. INSURED
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: payable
1 Loss of one entire hand 70
i. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been
admitted under this Benefit, then no amount will be 2 Loss of one entire foot 70
payable under this Benefit, but a claim will be
3 Loss of use of one eye 50
considered under Benefit C.1.1 (Death Benefit), if in
force for the Insured Person. 4 Loss of all toes 20
ii. If the Insured Person suffers Injuries resulting in more
than one of the Permanent Total Disablements, then 5 Loss of great toe - both phalanges 5
Our maximum, total and cumulative liability under this
6 Loss of great toe - one phalanx 2
Benefit shall be limited to the Sum Insured.
Other than great toe if more than one
iii. If We have admitted a claim for Permanent Total 7 5
toe lost each
Disablement in accordance with this Benefit, then We
shall not be liable to make any payment under Benefit 8 Loss of use of both ears 75
C.1.1 (Death Benefit), if the Insured Person
9 Loss of use of one ear 30
subsequently dies (unless the sum insured against
death benefit is greater, during which the balance Loss of four fingers and thumb of one
10 40
amount shall be paid to the nominee). However, any hand
other applicable Benefits which may get triggered will 11 Loss of four fingers 35
be considered in accordance with the terms and
12 Loss of thumb - both phalanges 25
conditions of the respective Benefits.
iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit in the 13 Loss of thumb - one phalanx 10
lifetime of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
14 Loss of index finger - three phalanges 10 employment or occupation on a temporary basis, then We will
pay upto the weekly amount specified against this Benefit in the
15 Loss of index finger - two phalanges 8
Policy Certificate for the duration that the Temporary Total
16 Loss of index finger - one phalanx 4 Disablement continues.
17 Loss of middle finger - three phalanges 6
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
18 Loss of middle finger - two phalanges 4
i. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
19 Loss of middle finger - one phalanx 2
Benefit in respect of the Insured Person for more than the
20 Loss of ring finger - three phalanges 5 total number of weeks specified in the Policy Certificate
for any and all claims arising within the Period of Cover
21 Loss of ring finger - two phalanges 4
under this Benefit.
22 Loss of ring finger - one phalanx 2 ii. Such disability is within 30 days after the date of Accident
causing such Injury
23 Loss of little finger - three phalanges 4 iii. If the Injury is sustained to or suffered in relation to the
24 Loss of little finger - two phalanges 3 spine and its muscular girdle, ligamentous system,
cartilage, nervous system and blood supply to the spine
25 Loss of little finger - one phalanx 2 which is not detectable by means of radiological
Loss of metacarpus - first or second scanning, imaging, or neurological fallout testing, then
26 3
(additional) Our liability under this Benefit shall extend for a maximum
Loss of metacarpus - third, fourth or period of five (5) weeks.
27 2
fifth (additional) iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment which is more
than the Insured Person’s Gross Weekly Income
v. In the event of any dispute as to the date when the
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: Temporary Total Disablement ceased, such date shall be
finally determined by an external Medical Practitioner
i. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been approved by Us who certifies either:
admitted under this Benefit, then no amount will be a) the date upon which the Insured Person recovered;
payable under this Benefit, but a claim will be or
considered under Benefit C.1.1 (Death Benefit, if b) the date upon which the Insured Person recovered
opted). as far as he/she will ever recover.
ii. If the insured person dies or develops Permanent Total vi. If the Insured Person is disabled for a part of a week, then
Disability after a claim is paid under this benefit, then only a proportionate part of the weekly amount will be
the remaining Sum Insured shall be paid under the payable in respect of that week.
respective Benefit (If Benefit C.1.1 and/or C.1.2 are
opted) Gross Weekly Income means the Insured Person’s base weekly
iii. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit and the amount earnings in his or her occupation at the time of the Accident
due under this claim and claims already admitted in causing the Injury for which benefits are claimed under this
respect of the Insured Person cumulatively leads to the coverage, but not including, overtime, bonuses, tips,
Sum Insured being exceeded, then Our maximum, total commissions, and special compensation.
and cumulative liability under any and all such claims
will be limited to the Sum Insured. Claims Documents for Section C.1.4:
 Claim Form
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, the Insured  MLC
Person’s insurance cover under this Benefit and the Policy shall  FIR
continue, subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and the  Medical Certificate
terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy.
 Fitness Certificate
 Income Documents (ITR/Form 16, as applicable)
Claims Documents for Section C.1.3:
 Claim Form
 MLC or FIR C.1.5 Base Benefit: Adventure Sports Benefit
 Police Final Charge Sheet / Court Final Order
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
 Disability Certificate issued by civil or government Policy Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy
Hospital Certificate if an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an
 Indoor case papers, if available Accident while engaging in Adventure Sports during the Period
 Medical Certificate of Cover and that Injury solely and directly results in the
Insured’s Person’s death or Permanent Total Disablement
C.1.4 Base Benefit: Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) within 365 days from the date of the Accident.
Benefit
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
i. The Insured Person was engaging in the Adventure
occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and
Sport under the supervision of a trained professional.
directly results in the total incapacitation of the Insured Person
ii. If the Insured Person received or was eligible to receive
which prevents the Insured Person from engaging in any any kind of remuneration for performing the Adventure
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Sport, no amount shall be payable under this Benefit.
However, we would cover running marathon events Claims Documents for Section C.1.6:
provided that the distance of such event does not  Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
exceed 42 kilometers C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or Benefit C.1.2 (Permanent Total
iii. Section C Exclusion (8) shall not apply to the extent of Disablement (PTD) Benefit) (As per the nature of Injury)
the cover under this Benefit.  Bonafide Certificate from the educational institute
iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit in certifying the enrolment of the Insured Person's child in
respect of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a his/her educational course
claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in  Proof of relationship of children with Insured Person
respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and such as passport/Aadhar card with full DOB /election
automatically cease but insurance cover under any card / PAN card
other applicable Benefits under this Policy in the  Age proof of children such as passport,/Aadhar card with
present Period of Cover shall continue subject to the full DOB /election card / PAN card
availability of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions
and exclusions of the Policy. C.1.7 Base Benefit: Orphan Benefit
Claims Documents for Section C.1.5:
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or Benefit C.1.2 (Permanent Total
in the Insured Person’s death within 365 days from the date of
Disablement (PTD) Benefit) (As per the nature of Injury)
the Accident, We will pay the Sum Insured in the manner
 Proof of participation in adventure sports such as tickets
and details of the company carrying out such activities specified in the Policy Certificate in respect of the surviving
Dependent Children of the Insured Person, irrespective of
C.1.6 Base Benefit: Children's Education Grant Benefit whether the child is an Insured Person under this Policy.
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that For the purpose of this Benefit, Dependent Child means a child
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results of the Insured Person who is less than Age 25 on the date of
in the Insured Person’s death or Permanent Total Disablement the Accident and does not have any independent source of
within 365 days from the date of the Accident, We will pay the income.
Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the Policy
Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy Certificate in This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
respect of the expenses towards education of the surviving
i. The Dependent Child’s other parent also dies as a
Dependent Children of the Insured Person, irrespective of
result of the same Accident or has pre-deceased the
whether the child is an Insured Person under this Policy.
Insured Person. In case the Insured is a single parent,
this clause shall not be applicable.
We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during the
ii. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability under this
Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On the Benefit is the Sum Insured, irrespective of the number
acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this of surviving Dependent Children of the Insured Person.
Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and iii. If the claim payment under this Benefit is being made
automatically cease but insurance cover under any other as per Periodic Claim Payment Clause as specified in
the Policy Certificate and the Dependent Child dies
applicable Benefits under this Policy during the Period of Cover
before the entire payment has been under this Benefit,
shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and
then the remaining instalments shall be paid in one
the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
lump sum to the Dependent Child’s legal heirs.
iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit in
If the Insured Person’s Dependent Children also die in the same respect of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a
Accident or due to any event occurring after the death of the claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Policy in
Insured Person and before the claim amount payable under this respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and
Benefit can be paid in full, the amount payable shall be paid to automatically cease.
the Dependent Child’s legal heirs in the manner specified in the
Claims Documents for Section C.1.7:
Policy Certificate.
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
C.1.1 (Death Benefit)
For the purpose of this Benefit, Dependent Child means a child
 Death Certificate of the Insured’s spouse
of the Insured Person who is less than 25 years of Age on the
 Proof of relationship of children with insured such as
date of Accident and is financially dependent on the Insured
passport/Aadhar card with full DOB/election card/PAN
Person. card
 Age proof of children such as passport/Aadhar card with
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: full DOB/election card/PAN card
i. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability under this C.1.8 Base Benefit: Parental Care Benefit
Benefit is the Sum Insured specified against this
Benefit, irrespective of the number of surviving If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
Dependent Children of the Insured Person. occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results
in the Insured Person’s death or Permanent Total Disablement
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
within 365 days from the date of the Accident, We will pay the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete
Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the Policy claim
Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy Certificate in vi. Our liability to make any payment under this Benefit
respect of the surviving parents of the Insured Person, shall be in excess of the per event Deductible or per
irrespective of whether the parent(s) is an Insured Person under event Franchise stated in the Policy Certificate, if
this Policy. applicable
vii. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: Insured Person and the amount due under this claim
i. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability under this and claims already admitted under the Benefit in
Benefit is the Sum Insured, irrespective of whether one respect of the Insured Person will cumulatively lead to
or both parents of the Insured Person are alive. the Sum Insured being exceeded then Our maximum,
ii. In case the parent/s pre-decease the Insured Person total and cumulative liability under any and all such
after the Policy Start Date but before the Insured event, claims will be limited to the Sum Insured.
the Benefit shall be payable to the Legal heir/s of the viii. If We have admitted a claim under this Benefit, then on
parent/s. the Insured Person/Nominee’s advance written
iii. If the claim payment under this Benefit is being made request, We may pay the amount due under this Benefit
as per Periodical Claim Payment Clause as specified in directly to the Hospital where the Insured Person was
the Policy Certificate and the surviving parents die treated provided that We are able to offer Cashless
before the entire payment has been under this Benefit, Facility at that Hospital.
then the remaining instalments shall be paid in one
lump sum to the parent’s legal heirs. Claims Documents for Section C.1.9:
iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit in  Claim Form
respect of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a  Indoor Case Papers, if available
claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in  MLC or FIR
respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and  All Diagnostic Reports
automatically cease but insurance cover under any  Complete Hospital bills
other applicable Benefits under this Policy during the
 Discharge Summary
Period of Cover shall continue subject to the availability
of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions and
C.1.10 Base Benefit: Accidental Hospitalization Daily Cash
exclusions of the Policy.
Benefit
Claims Documents for Section C.1.8:
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total
Disablement (PTD) Benefit) (As per the nature of injury) directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized, then We
 Proof of relation such as passport, birth certificate will pay the daily amount specified in the Policy Certificate for
school/college leaving certificate of Insured Person each continuous and completed day of Hospitalization.
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
C.1.9 Base Benefit: Accidental Hospitalization Expenses
Reimbursement Benefit i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment
and is commenced and continued on the written advice
We will reimburse the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of of the treating Medical Practitioner.
the Insured Person for treatment of Injury sustained by the ii. The Insured Person is admitted to the Hospital within 7
Insured Person in an Accident which occurs within the Period of days of the occurrence of the Accident.
Cover and solely and directly requires the Insured Person to be iii. We shall not be liable to pay the daily amount for more
than the maximum number of days specified in the Policy
Hospitalized.
Certificate for each period of Hospitalization within the
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: Period of Cover.
iv. Our liability to make any payment under this Benefit shall
i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary be in excess of the per event Deductible or per event
Treatment and is commenced and continued on the Franchise stated in the Policy Certificate, if applicable.
written advice of the treating Medical Practitioner. v. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
ii. The Insured Person is admitted to the Hospital within 7 Insured Person and the amount due under this claim and
days of the occurrence of the Accident. claims already admitted under the Benefit in respect of
iii. We will reimburse only those Medical Expenses that are the Insured Person will cumulatively lead to the Sum
Reasonable and Customary Charges. Insured being exceeded then Our maximum, total and
iv. We shall not be liable to make any payment in respect cumulative liability under any and all such claims will be
of any non-payable items, the list of which is attached limited to the Sum Insured and the maximum number of
to this Policy and is available on Our website days as mentioned against this Benefit in the Policy
www.icicilombard.com Certificate.
v. We shall not be liable to pay any claim arising out of vi. If We have admitted a claim under this Benefit, then on
Hospitalization in any Hospitals that have been the Insured Person/Nominee’s advance written request,
blacklisted by Us, the updated details of which will be We may pay the amount due under this Benefit directly to
available on Our website www.icicilombard.com. the Hospital where the Insured Person was treated
However, following an accident, expenses up to the provided that We are able to offer Cashless Facility at that
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Hospital. be reduced proportionately and shall in any event not
exceed the Sum Insured.
iii. Any payments that are overdue and unpaid by the
Claims Documents for Section C.1.10: Insured Person prior to the occurrence of the Accident
 Claim Form will not be considered for the purpose of this Benefit and
 Indoor Case Papers, if available shall be deemed as paid by the Insured Person and our
 MLC or FIR liability shall be restricted to the principal outstanding
 All Diagnostic Reports amount on the date of loss as per the details mentioned
 Complete Hospital bills on the original amortization schedule issued at the time
 Discharge Summary of loan disbursal by the financer.
 Certificate from Medical Practitioner iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person.
C.1.11 Base Benefit: Common Carrier Accident Benefit On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all
cover under this Benefit in respect of the Insured
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the Person shall immediately and automatically cease but
insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits
Policy Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy
under this Policy during the Period of Cover shall
Certificate if an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an
continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured
Accident to the Common Carrier on which the Insured Person
and the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
is travelling during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and
directly results in the Insured Person’s death or Permanent Claims Documents for Section C.1.12:
Total Disablement. We will only accept one claim under this  Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
Benefit in respect of the Insured Person. C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total
Disablement (PTD) Benefit) (As per the nature of injury)
On the acceptance of a death claim under this Benefit, all cover  Loan Sanction Letter & Loan Disbursement Letter
under this Policy in respect of the Insured Person shall  Original amortization schedule on disbursal letter,
immediately and automatically cease. statement of account as on date of loss
On the acceptance of a Permanent Total Disablement claim C.1.13 Base Benefit: Assault Benefit
under this Benefit, all subsequent coverages under this Benefit
and Benefit C.1.1 (Death Benefit), C.1.2 (Permanent Total We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Disablement (PTD) Benefit) & C.1.3 (Permanent Partial Policy Certificate if the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to
Disablement (PPD) Benefit) in respect of the Insured Person an Accident which is a violent crime or Assault that occurs
shall immediately and automatically cease. during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and directly
requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized for more than 2
However, insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits
days.
under this Policy in the present Period of Cover shall continue
subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and the terms,
We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during the
conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On the
Claims Documents for Section C.1.11: acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total automatically cease but insurance cover under any other
Disablement (PTD) Benefit ) (As per the nature of injury) applicable Benefits under this Policy during the Period of Cover
 Proof of Travel (Ticket or boarding pass)
shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and
the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
C.1.12 Base Benefit: Loan Protection Benefit
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that Claims Documents for Section C.1.13:
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results  Claim Form
in the death or the Permanent Total Disablement of the Insured  MLC
 FIR
Person, then We will pay an amount equal to the principal
 Police Final Charge Sheet
outstanding amount as on the date of Accident in respect of the
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama
Insured Person’s outstanding Loan specified in the Policy
 Hospital Discharge Summary
Certificate.
 Indoor case papers, if available
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
C.1.14 Base Benefit: Mysterious Disappearance Benefit
i. We will make payment under this Benefit in accordance
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
with the amortization schedule (as on Loan
Policy Certificate in the manner specified in the Policy
disbursement or the actual amount outstanding on the
date of the Accident, whichever is less). Certificate if the Insured Person has, due to an accident to the
ii. If the Sum Insured under this Benefit is less than the common carrier in which he was travelling during the period of
Insured Person’s outstanding Loan amount on the date the cover, disappeared and is not heard of for more than 365
of the Accident, then Our liability under this Benefit shall days from the date of the accident.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  Claim Form
 Indoor Case Papers, if available
i. The Insured Person’s disappearance is certified in
 MLC or FIR
writing by the police authorities.
 All Diagnostic Reports
ii. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this
 Complete Hospital bills
Benefit if the Common Carrier on which the Insured
 Discharge Summary
Person was travelling was a private taxi, yacht, charter
airline or a rented car.
C.1.17 Base Benefit: Physical Rehabilitation Benefit
iii. On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all
cover under this Policy shall immediately and
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
automatically cease in respect of that Insured Person.
Policy Certificate, in respect of the Insured Person, for treatment
iv. If after payment of claim under this Benefit, the Insured
of Injury sustained in an Accident which occurs within the Period
Person is found to be alive, We reserve the right to
recover in full from the Nominee/legal heir of the of Cover and solely and directly requires the Insured Person to
Insured Person the amount paid under this Benefit as undergo Physical Rehabilitation within 8 weeks from the date of
well as stop any future payments due in respect of this the accident.
Benefit.
Claims Documents for Section C.1.14: Physical Rehabilitation means a treatment/therapy by a
 Claim Form licensed physical therapist who remediates impairments and
 FIR (Police certificate confirming disappearance) promotes mobility and function by using mechanical force &
 Police Final Charge Sheet movements, manual therapy, exercise therapy and
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama electrotherapy.
C.1.15 Base Benefit: Reconstructive Surgery Benefit This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the i. Any such therapy or treatment must be approved by the
Policy Certificate, in respect of the Insured Person, for treatment treating medical practitioner/surgeon
ii. Any physical or mechanical therapy that is arising solely
of Injury sustained in an Accident which occurs within the Period
and directly out of a sustained bodily injury, in an
of Cover and solely and directly requires the Insured Person to
accident
be Hospitalized and undergo Reconstructive Surgery.
Claims Documents for Section C.1.17:
Reconstructive Surgery would mean surgery to reconstruct
 Claim Form
cutaneous or underlying tissue, prescribed as necessary, by a
 Complete Medical bills containing the expenses incurred
physician.
on Physical Rehabilitation
This Benefit shall be payable subject to any reconstructive  Certificate from treating doctor stating the need for
Physical Rehabilitation Certificate from the Physical
surgery:
Therapist certifying the course of treatment
i. Prescribed as necessary, by a physician.
ii. Arising solely and directly out of a sustained bodily
C.1.18 Base Benefit: Loss of Job Benefit
injury, in an accident
iii. Performed by a registered and licensed cosmetic / We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
reconstructive surgeon
Policy Certificate, in the manner specified in the Policy
iv. Taking place within six months from the date of the
Certificate if the insured person loses his job on account of an
Accident
Injury due to an Accident resulting in Permanent Total
The Insured Person’s stay in a hospital should continue for a
minimum period of 2 successive days. Disablement or Permanent Partial Disablement during the
Policy Period
Claims Documents for Section C.1.15:
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
 Claim Form
 Indoor Case Papers, if available
i. The Insured Person is employed on the direct payroll of
 MLC or FIR
an organization or entity having a registered office in
 All Diagnostic Reports
India or of an Indian branch of such organization or
 Complete Hospital bills
entity, for a minimum of six continuous months before
 Discharge Summary
the Risk Inception Date
ii. The onus of establishing that the loss of Job was due
C.1. 16 Base Benefit: Catastrophic Evacuation Benefit
an injury to the Insured during the Policy Period, solely
and directly resulting in the Insured Person’s suffering
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Permanent Total Disablement or Permanent Partial
Policy Certificate, in the manner specified in the Policy
Disablement and providing proof of such reason where
Certificate if the Insured Person suffers an accidental injury,
required by Us, shall lie on the Insured Person/claimant.
requiring Hospitalization during a catastrophic evacuation. Any form of self resignation shall not be admissible.
iii. Once a claim has been considered admissible and
Catastrophic evacuation means an emergency exit due to
payable by Us under this Section, any subsequent
natural calamities
Renewal of the cover under this Section will be solely
as per Our discretion, on a case to case basis.
Claims Documents for Section C.1.16:
.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Claims Documents for Section C.1.18:
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit C.1.20 Base Benefit: Diagnostic Test Benefit
C.1.2 (Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit) or
We will reimburse the expenses incurred upto the Sum Insured,
C.1.3 (Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD) Benefit)
as specified against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate, in the
(As per the nature of injury)
manner specified in the Policy Certificate if the Insured Person
 Certificate from the employer of the Insured confirming
suffers an injury due to an Accident during the Policy Period and
the termination / dismissal, with the reasons for the
needs to undergo an imaging diagnostic test which includes X-
same. Appointment letter
Rays, CT Scan, MRI or Ultrasonography tests, Within 7 days
 Last 3 Months Salary Slip
from the date of accident. This Benefit shall be payable subject
 Form 16
to the following:
 Contact details of employer-phone no. mobile no., email Any such tests must be done to diagnose an injury due to an
ID, contact person in HR/Admin/Personnel dept. accident and should be prescribed by a registered medical
Appointment letter Employer if Re employed practitioner/surgeon
C.1.19 Base Benefit: Recovery Benefit Claims Documents for Section C.1.20:
 Claim Form
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the  Prescription from the treating doctor indicating the
Policy Certificate, in respect of the Insured Person if an Insured diagnostic tests to be undertaken
Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that occurs during
 Complete Medical bills containing the expenses incurred
the Period of Cover and that solely and directly results in
on Diagnosis
hospitalization of the insured person requiring the insured
Reports of the diagnostic tests
person to be hospitalised for at least 5 continuous days.
For the purpose of this Benefit, the payout is, as specified in the C. 2. 1 Extension Benefit: Lifestyle Support Benefit
table below:
We will pay a lump sum amount which is equal to the claim
amount that would be payable under Benefit C.1.2 or C.1.3 (if a
Continuous Hospitalization for at least % of Sum Insured Payable claim is accepted under that Benefit) to the Insured Person
towards modification of home, office and / or vehicle or towards
5 Days 25
purchase of an Artificial Limb or any prosthesis or any other
10 Days Additional 25 expenses because of Permanent Total Disablement or
15 Days Additional 50 Permanent Partial Disablement caused due to an accident.
However, Our liability for payment of all claims under this
Benefit in aggregate for Period of Cover shall in no case exceed
For the purpose of an example, let us consider an Insured
the Sum Insured for this Benefit as specified in the Policy
Person, having a Sum Insured of Rs. 100,000 under this benefit,
Certificate.
suffers an Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the
Period of Cover and that solely and directly results in 4 days of This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
hospitalization of the insured person. No benefit shall be
payable. i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.2
(Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit) or C.1.3
However, in case he is Hospitalized for 7 days, we shall be liable (Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD) Benefit) in
to pay him 25%, Rs. 25,000 for the first continuous 5 days of respect of that Insured Person.
Hospitalization, ii. We will accept only one claim under this Benefit in the
lifetime of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a
If in case he is Hospitalized for 12 continuous days, We shall be
claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in
liable to pay him 50%, Rs. 50,000 for the first 10 continuous
respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and
days of Hospitalization.
automatically cease but insurance cover under any
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: other applicable Benefits under this Policy during the
Period of Cover shall continue subject to the availability
i. We will accept multiple claims under this Benefit during
of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions and
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person.
exclusions of the Policy.
However Our maximum, total and cumulative liability for
claims arising in respect of the Insured Person under this
Claims Documents for Section C.2.1:
Benefit during the Period of Cover shall be the Sum
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
Insured as specified against this Benefit in the Policy
C.1.2 (Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit) or
Certificate.
against Benefit C.1.3 (Permanent Partial Disablement
ii. Our maximum liability under this cover shall be the sum
(PPD) Benefit)
insured mentioned against this benefit in the policy
certificate
C.2.2 Extension Benefit: Last Rites Benefit
Claims Documents for Section C.1.19:
 Claim Form
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
 Indoor Case Papers, if available
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results
 MLC or FIR
in the Insured Person’s death, We will pay the Sum Insured
 All Diagnostic Reports
specified against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate towards
 Complete Hospital bills the cost of the last rites of the Insured Person and/or
 Discharge Summary transporting the mortal remains (including ash) from the place
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
of death to the residence of the Insured Person. insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits
under this Policy during the Period of Cover shall
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured
and the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.1 (Death
Benefit) in respect of that Insured Person. Claims Documents for Section C.2.4:
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
Claims Documents for Section C.2.2: C.1.2 Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit)
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit  All original bills associated with the repatriation
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) expenses
 All original bills associated with the repatriation
expenses
C.2.5 Extension Benefit: Accidental Pre & Post
C.2.3 Extension Benefit: Counseling Benefit Hospitalization Expenses Benefit
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that We will reimburse the Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results (due to an injury arising out of an accident) incurred for up-to 7
in the Insured Person’s death or Permanent Total Disablement, days immediately preceding the Hospitalization of the Insured
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the Person and the Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred
Policy Certificate in respect of the expenses incurred on for up-to 60 days immediately following the Insured Person’s
professional counselling in respect of the Insured Person or the discharge from Hospital.
Nominee/legal heir (as the case may be) provided that We have
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2
(Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit). i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.9
(Accidental Hospitalization Expenses Benefit) in
We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during the respect of the Insured Person.
ii. We will reimburse only those Pre-hospitalization
Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On the
Medical Expenses and Post-hospitalization Medical
acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this
Expenses that are Reasonable and Customary
Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and
Charges.
automatically cease but insurance cover under any other iii. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
applicable Benefits under this Policy during the Period of Cover Insured Person and the amount due under this claim
shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and and claims already admitted under the Benefit in
the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. respect of the Insured Person will cumulatively lead to
the Sum Insured being exceeded then Our maximum,
total and cumulative liability under any and all such
Claims Documents for Section C.2.3:
claims will be limited to the Sum Insured.
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or Benefit C.1.2 (Permanent Total
Claims Documents for Section C.2.5:
Disablement (PTD) Benefit) (As per the nature of Injury)
 Claim Form
 Proof of counselling sessions along with councillor’s
 Indoor Case Papers, if available
prescription or certificate
 MLC or FIR
C.2.4 Extension Benefit: Repatriation in case of  All Diagnostic Reports
 Discharge Summary
Permanent Disability Benefit
 All receipts & bills related to pre and post Hospitalization
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that • Certificate from Medical Practitioner
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results
C.2.6 Extension Benefit: Air Ambulance Benefit
in the Permanent Total Disablement of the Insured Person, We
will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the If an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
Policy Certificate in respect of transporting the Insured Person occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and
from the place of Accident or Hospitalization to the residence of directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized, We will
pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the Policy
the Insured Person.
Certificate in respect of Air Ambulance services for
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: transportation of the Insured Person from the site of the
Accident to the nearest Hospital or from the site of first treatment
i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.2 to a higher center of care where the Insured Person is being
(Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit) in treated to the nearest Hospital.
respect of that Insured Person.
ii. The Accident occurred in a location that is not the This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
city/place of residence of the Insured Person.
iii. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during i. The transportation is required to stabilise the condition
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. of the Insured Person and the Insured Person is alive
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all while boarding the Air Ambulance.
cover under this Benefit in respect of the Insured ii. The Air Ambulance services are availed within 7 days
Person shall immediately and automatically cease but from the date of the Accident.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
All other fractures 75%
We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during the Multiple fractures (at least
75%
Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. On the one compound fracture)
2 Lower jaw
acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Compound fracture 50%
Benefit in respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and All other fractures 25%
Shoulder Multiple fractures (at least
automatically cease but insurance cover under any other 75%
blade, one compound fracture)
applicable Benefits under this Policy during the Period of Cover
kneecap,
shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and Compound fracture 50%
sternum,
the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. hand
3 (excluding
Claims Documents for Section C.2.6: fingers and
 Claim Form wrist), foot All other fractures 25%
 MLC or FIR (excluding
 Discharge Summary toes and
 All receipts related to availment of any Ambulance heel)
services Multiple fractures (at least
Upper arm 75%
 Certificate from Medical Practitioner mentioning the one compound fracture)
(including
requirement of Air Ambulance services 4 Colles type fracture
elbow and 50%
(compound)
wrist)
C.2.7 Extension Benefit: Comatose Benefit All other fractures 25%
All compression fractures 30%
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the All spinous, transverse
Policy Certificate if an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to process or pedicle 25%
5 Spinal cord
an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that fractures
Injury solely and directly results in the Insured Person being in All other vertebral
20%
a Coma within 30 days from the date of the Accident. fractures
Rib or ribs, Multiple fractures (at least
50%
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: cheekbone, one compound)
coccyx,
Compound fracture 25%
i. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during in upper jaw,
6
the lifetime of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of nose, toe
a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in and toes,
All other fractures 20%
respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and finger or
automatically cease but insurance cover under any other fingers
applicable Benefits under this Policy during the Period of Multiple fractures (at least
50%
Cover shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Thigh or one compound)
Insured and the terms, conditions and exclusions of the 7 heel: Compound fracture 25%
Policy. All other fractures 20%
Hip or Multiple fractures (at least
Claims Documents for Section C.2.7: 50%
pelvis one compound)
 Claim Form 8 (excluding Compound fracture 25%
 Indoor Case Papers, if available thigh or
All other fractures 20%
 MLC or FIR coccyx):
 All Diagnostic Reports Multiple fractures (at least
Lower leg, 50%
 Complete Hospital bills one compound)
9 clavicle,
 Discharge Summary Compound fracture 25%
ankle,
 Certificate from Medical Practitioner mentioning the All other fractures 20%
neurological condition of the insured
C.2.8 Extension Benefit: Broken Bones Benefit This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
We will pay the percentage of the Sum Insured (specified i. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate) in the manner which Insured Person and the amount due under this claim
is specified in the table below if an Insured Person suffers an and claims already admitted under the Benefit in
Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover respect of the Insured Person will cumulatively lead to
and that Injury solely, directly and immediately results in a the Sum Insured being exceeded then Our maximum,
fracture (of the nature specified in the table below). total and cumulative liability under any and all such
claims will be limited to the Sum Insured.
% of the ii. On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, the
Sr Sum Insured Person’s insurance cover under this Benefit
No. Region Fracture Insured and the Policy shall continue, subject to the availability
payable of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions and
Compound fractures of exclusions of this Policy.
1 Skull skull with damage to the 100% iii. We will be liable to pay a claim under this Benefit only
brain tissue if the Insured Person is taken to a medical care facility
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
where he/she is diagnosed for the above mentioned % of the
fractures by a Medical Practitioner. Sum
Losses Covered
Insured
Claims Documents for Section C.2.8: payable
 Claim Form a) Third degree burns 100%
 Indoor Case Papers (In case of Hospitalization), if 1)Head, b) Second degree burns of 10% or
75%
available Face more of the total head surface area
 MLC or FIR and c) Second degree burns of 3% or
 All Diagnostic Reports Neck more, but less than 10% of the total 25%
 Complete Hospital bills head surface area
 Discharge Summary a) Third degree burns of 25% or
100%
 In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge more of the total body surface area
Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom b) Second degree burns of 25% or
75%
the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of more of the total body surface area
2) Rest
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission c) Second degree burns of 10% or
of
and Discharge from the Hospital more, but less than 25% of the total 50%
Body
 Certificate from Medical Practitioner body surface area
d) Second degree burns of 5% or
C.2.9 Extension Benefit: Compassionate Visit Benefit more, but less than 10% of the total 25%
body surface area
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
Policy Certificate in respect of the expenses incurred on tickets For the purpose of this Benefit, Burns mean an injury caused
on a Common Carrier for an Immediate Family Member of the by exposure to heat or flame including chemical and electric
Insured Person to travel to the place of death or Hospitalization burns. Second Degree Burns involve the epidermis and part of
the dermis layer of skin and are also known as partial burns.
of the Insured Person
Third Degree Burns mean burns with scarring that cover at
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: least 20% of the body’s surface area. The diagnosis must
confirm the total area involved using standardized, clinically
i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.1 (Death accepted, body surface area charts covering 20% of the body
Benefit), Benefit C.1.2 (Permanent Total Disablement surface area. First Degree Burns are not covered under this
(PTD) Benefit) or Benefit C.2.8 (Broken Bones Benefit) Policy.
(where the percentage of the Sum Insured payable is at
least 50%) in respect of the Insured Person. This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
ii. The Insured Person is Hospitalized at a distance of at i. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an
least 100 kilometres from his place of residence. Insured Person and the amount due under this claim and
iii. The Medical Practitioner treating the Insured person claims already admitted under the Benefit in respect of the
recommends in writing the personal attendance of an Insured Person will cumulatively lead to the Sum Insured
Immediate Family Member. being exceeded then Our maximum, total and cumulative
iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during liability under any and all such claims will be limited to the Sum
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. Insured.
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all ii. On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, the
cover under this Benefit in respect of the Insured Insured Person’s insurance cover under this Benefit and the
Person shall immediately and automatically cease but Policy shall continue, subject to the availability of the Sum
insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits Insured and the terms, conditions and exclusions of this
under this Policy during the Period of Cover shall Policy.
continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured
and the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. Claims Documents for Section C.2.10:
 Claim Form
 Indoor Case Papers, if available
Claims Documents for Section C.2.9:
 MLC or FIR
 Claim Form
 All Diagnostic Reports
 MLC or FIR
 Complete Hospital bills
 All receipts related to availment of any Travel Service
 Discharge Summary
through a licensed Common Carrier
 In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
C.2.10 Extension Benefit: Burns Benefit Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom the
insured was admitted) mentioning the details of Diagnosis,
Investigations and Date & Time of Admission and Discharge
We will pay the percentage of the Sum Insured (specified
from the Hospital
against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate) which is specified
 Certificate from Medical Practitioner mentioning the
in the table below if an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to
details of the burns injury suffered by the insured
an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that
Injury solely and directly results in a Second Degree Burns or C.2.11 Extension Benefit: Ambulance Charges Benefit
Third Degree Burns (of the nature specified in the table below).
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that
occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and
directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized, We will
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the Policy specified against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate in respect
Certificate in respect of road Ambulance Services for of the expenses incurred towards enrolment in any skill
development course.
transportation of the Insured Person from the site of the
Accident to the nearest Hospital or from the site of first treatment
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
to a higher center of care.
i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.1 (Death
Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total Disablement (PTD)
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: Benefit) or C.1.3 (Permanent Partial Disablement
(PPD) Benefit) in respect of that Insured Person.
i. The transportation is recommended in writing by a ii. The coverage is applicable to either the Insured Person
Medical Practitioner. in case of Permanent Total Disablement or Permanent
ii. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit during Partial Disablement of the Insured Person or to the
the Period of Cover in respect of the Insured Person. immediate family member in case of Death of the
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all Insured Person
cover under this Benefit in respect of the Insured
Person shall immediately and automatically cease but Claims Documents for Section C.2.13:
insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
under this Policy during the Period of Cover shall
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total
continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured
Disablement (PTD) Benefit ) (As per the nature of injury)
and the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
 Relevant bills to confirm enrolment in a skill development
course
Claims Documents for Section C.2.11:
 Claim Form
 Discharge Summary
C.2.14 Extension Benefit: On Duty Enhanced Benefit
 In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of
Policy Certificate, in the manner specified in the Policy
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission
and Discharge from the Hospital Certificate towards additional coverage while being on duty, if
 All receipts related to availment of any Ambulance the Insured suffers an Injury due to an Accident On Duty during
services the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and directly results in
 Certificate from Medical Practitioner the Insured’s Person’s death or Permanent Total Disablement
within 365 days from the date of the Accident.
C.2.12 Extension Benefit: Chauffeur Cash Benefit
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.1 (Death
Policy Certificate, in the manner specified in the Policy
Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total Disablement (PTD)
Certificate for the hire of a taxi or chauffeur driven car, if the
Benefit) in respect of that Insured Person.
Insured Person suffers an Accidental injury during the Policy
ii. The Employer shall certify that such Accidental Injury
Period such that he suffers from Temporary Total Disablement
has occurred while the Insured Person was On Duty
and unable to attend his/her business commitments (as a result
iii. We will accept only one claim under this Benefit in
of the accidental bodily injury)
respect of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a
claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the
respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and
following:
automatically cease but insurance cover under any
other applicable Benefits under this Policy during the
i. The Insured Person need to follow proper medical
Period of Cover shall continue subject to the availability
advice from a physician after sustaining the bodily injury
of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions and
ii. The hire of a taxi or chauffeur driven car should be
exclusions of the Policy.
necessitated out of a sustained bodily injury, in an
accident
Claims Documents for Section C.2.14:
iii. Presentation of bill(s) proving the usage of such
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
services by the insured
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total
Disablement (PTD) Benefit ) (As per the nature of injury)
Claims Documents for Section C.2.12:
 Certificate from the employer establishing that the
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
insured person was Employed and On-Duty at the time
C.1.4 (Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) Benefit)
of accident
 Bills certifying use of Taxi or Chauffeur services
C.2.13 Extension Benefit: Skill Development Benefit C.2.15 Extension Benefit: Home Tuition Benefit
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident that We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in the
occurs during the Period of Cover and solely and directly results Policy Certificate, in the manner specified in the Policy
in the Insured Person’s Death or Permanent Total Disablement Certificate towards the Home Tuition Fees if the Insured’s
or Permanent Partial Disablement, We will pay the Sum Insured Dependant Child (if covered under this policy) suffers an injury
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
during the Policy Period which solely and directly results in his automatically cease but insurance cover under any
Temporarily Total Disablement. other applicable Benefits under this Policy during the
Period of Cover shall continue subject to the availability
Home Tuition Fees means the costs for a fully registered and of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions and
licensed teacher to continue the education of the Insured exclusions of the Policy.
Dependant Child at home, during his Temporary Total
Disablement.
Claims Documents for Section C.2.16:
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit
C.1.1 (Death Benefit) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total
i. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Disablement (PTD) Benefit ) (As per the nature of injury)
Benefit in respect of the Insured Person for more than the  Copies of outstanding medical insurance premium,
total number of weeks specified in the Policy Certificate electricity and telephone bills
for any and all claims arising within the Period of Cover
under this Benefit. C.2.17 Extension Benefit: Major Surgery Benefit
ii. If the Injury is sustained to or suffered in relation to the
spine and its muscular girdle, ligamentous system, We will pay the Sum Insured specified against this Benefit in
cartilage, nervous system and blood supply to the spine the Policy Certificate, in respect of the Insured Person for
which is not detectable by means of radiological
treatment of Injury sustained by the Insured Person in an
scanning, imaging, or neurological fallout testing, then
Accident which occurs within the Period of Cover and solely and
Our liability under this Benefit shall extend for a maximum
period of five (5) weeks. directly requires the Insured Person to be Hospitalized and
iii. In the event of any dispute as to the date when the undergo a Major Surgery.
Temporary Total Disablement ceased, such date shall be
finally determined by an external Medical Practitioner This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
approved by Us who certifies either:
a. the date upon which the Insured Person recovered; i. We will be liable to pay only for a Major Surgery
or ii. No benefit payable in any respect of any insured person
b. the date upon which the Insured Person recovered for:
as far as he/she will ever recover. a. Congenital anomalies and conditions arising
iv. If the Insured Person is disabled for a part of a week, then therefrom
only a proportionate part of the weekly amount will be b. Pregnancy, child birth, miscarriage or abortion or
payable in respect of that week. any female organs disease
c. Any hospital, surgical treatment or procedure as
Claims Documents for Section C.2.15: the result of sickness within 90 days of the policy
 Documentation requirement mentioned against Benefit start date
C.1.4 (Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) Benefit) d. Cosmetic or plastic surgery
 Relevant bills to confirm engagement of Home Tuition e. Any infection occurring during in-patient care
services f. Any hospital, surgical treatment or procedure on
adenoids or tonsils 180 days of the policy start
C.2.16 Extension Benefit: Outstanding Bills Payment date
Benefit g. Any surgery not arising out of an accident
For the purpose of this benefit, Major Surgery shall mean a
We will pay the Sum Insured, specified against this Benefit in
surgical procedure performed under General Anesthesia and
the Policy Certificate, in the manner specified in the Policy
requiring continuous Hospitalization of atleast 2 days.
Certificate towards the actual costs of outstanding medical
insurance premium, electricity and telephone bills or any other Claims Documents for Section C.2.17:
utility bills that are unpaid at the time of accident, if the Insured  Claim Form
suffers an Injury due to an Accident during the Period of Cover  Indoor Case Papers, if available
and that Injury solely and directly results in the Insured’s  MLC or FIR
Person’s death or Permanent Total Disablement within 365  All Diagnostic Reports
days from the date of the Accident.  Complete Hospital bills
 Discharge Summary
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  In case of incomplete and / or inconclusive Discharge
Summary, Certificate from Treating Doctor (under whom
the insured was admitted) mentioning the details of
i. We have accepted a claim under Benefit C.1.1 (Death
Diagnosis, Investigations and Date & Time of Admission
Benefit ) or C.1.2 (Permanent Total Disablement (PTD)
and Discharge from the Hospital
Benefit) in respect of that Insured Person
ii. Our maximum and cumulative liability shall be the Sum  Certificate from Medical Practitioner
Insured as specified against this Benefit in the Policy
Certificate SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO
iii. We will only accept only one claim under this Benefit in SECTION C (Except Benefit C.1.9 and C.2.5)
respect of the Insured Person. On the acceptance of a
claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in
respect of the Insured Person shall immediately and
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under from or caused by ionizing radiation or contamination by
Section C (Except Benefit C.1.9 and C.2.5) of this Policy in radioactivity from any nuclear fuel (explosive or hazardous
respect of an Insured Person, directly or indirectly for, caused by, form) or resulting from or from any other cause or event
arising from or in any way attributable to any of the following: contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the
loss, claim or expense from any nuclear waste from the
1. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or warlike combustion of nuclear fuel, nuclear, chemical or biological
operations (whether war be declared or not) or civil attack.
commotion or rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny,
14. Any Hospitalization consequent to any condition arising
arrests, detainments of all kinds and political gatherings,
from or traceable to any disease of the organs of
engaging in aviation other than as a passenger (fare paying
generation, malignant disease of mammary gland,
or otherwise) in any licensed standard type of aircraft.
pregnancy, childbirth, abortion or miscarriage or any
2. Any Injury sustained while performing duty in army, navy, complications and/or sequels arising from the foregoing.
air force, paramilitary force, police or any other such
15. Circumcision or strictures, vaccination, inoculation, sex
institution.
change, beauty treatment of any description, intentional
3. Any event which occurs whilst the Insured Person is self-Injury, (which expression shall cover also general
operating or learning to operate any aircraft or common debility, "run down" conditions), venereal disease, use of
carrier, or performing duties as a member of the crew on intoxicating drugs, or any Illness, Injury, death or
any aircraft, or scheduled airlines or is engaging in aviation, disablement directly or indirectly due to any one or more of
or whilst the Insured Person is mounting into, or them.
dismounting from or traveling in any balloon or aircraft other
16. Dental treatment, eye treatment and plastic surgery unless
than as a passenger (fare-paying or otherwise) in any
medically necessitated as a consequence of an Injury
scheduled airline anywhere in the world.
sustained in an Accident during the Period of Cover.
4. Breach of law or while being involved in any unlawful
17. Any Hospitalization not arising out of an Injury sustained in
activity.
an Accident during the Period of Cover.
5. Any Injury / Illness arising from intentional self- Injury,
18. Medical Expenses not incurred as a direct result of the
suicide or attempted suicide.
Injury sustained in an Accident during the Period of Cover.
6. Any Injury / Illness arising whilst under the influence of
19. Routine medical, dental, eye and ear examinations.
alcohol or intoxicating drugs or substance abuse of any
kind. 20. All cosmetic/aesthetic surgeries including but not limited to
lasik surgery.
7. Any Injury / Illness occurring whilst working in underground
mines or explosives magazines, or involving electrical 21. Any medical examination or diagnostics or Hospitalization
installation with high tension supply, or as jockeys or circus for the sole purpose of investigation or employment or
personnel travel:
8. Injury sustained whilst engaging in Adventure Sports (This 22. Any Injury sustained while working professionally with any
exclusion shall not apply if Benefit C.1.5 is in force for the animals reptiles or insects.
Insured Person)
23. Any Injury or Illness of any kind caused or infected by or
9. Any Injury that has occurred prior to the commencement of transmitted by or in any way attributed to virus, parasite,
Policy of Cover whether or not the same has been treated, bacteria or any microorganism including where the virus,
or medical advice, diagnosis, care or treatment has been parasite, bacteria or any other microorganism is introduced
sought. and/ or caused by bites of insects, reptiles, animals and/or
other vector.
10. Expenses incurred on eyeglasses, contact lenses, hearing
aids and examination for the prescription or fitting thereof. 24. Any Medical Expenses not incurred in a Hospital as defined
in the Policy Wordings.
11. Any Illness, complication or ailment not arising out of or
connected to Injury.
12. Payment of compensation in respect of death, disablement EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO BENEFITS C.1.9 and C.2.5
(whether of a permanent nature or of a temporary nature),
Injury, Illness or Hospitalization of the Insured Person We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under
resulting directly from, or indirectly caused by, or Benefits C.1.9 and C.2.5 of this Policy in respect of an Insured
contributed to or aggravated or prolonged by, childbirth or Person, directly or indirectly for, caused by, arising from or in any
pregnancy or in consequence thereof. way attributable to any of the following:
13. Death, disablement (whether of a permanent nature or of a
i. STANDARD EXCLUSIONS -
temporary nature), Injury, Illness or Hospitalization arising
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
 Unproven Treatment (Code - Excl 16): Expenses related  Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or
to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or any addictive condition and consequences thereof .
in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments (Code – Excl 12)
are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack
 Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code – Exc
significant medical documentation to support their
05):
effectiveness.
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced
 Maternity (Code - Excl 18):
bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also
o Medical treatment expenses traceable to includes:
childbirth (including complicated deliveries and
o Custodial care either at home or in a nursing
caesarean sections incurred during
facility for personal care such as help with
hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing,
moving around either by skilled nurses or
o Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to
assistant or non-skilled persons.
an accident) and lawful medical termination of
pregnancy during the policy period; o Any services for people who are terminally ill to
address physical, social, emotional and spiritual
 Sterility and Infertility :(Code - Excl 17): Expenses related
needs.
to , sterility and infertility.
This includes:  Treatment received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics,
spas or similar establishments or private beds registered
 Any type of contraception, sterilization
as a nursing home attached to such establishments or
 Assisted Reproduction services including artificial where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic
insemination and advanced reproductive reasons (Code – Excl 13)
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
 Dietary supplements and substances that can be
 Gestational Surrogacy purchased without prescription, including but not limited
to vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless
 Reversal of sterilization.
prescribed by a medical practitioner as a part of
 Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery (Code - Excl 08): Expenses hospitalization claim or day care procedure (Code – Excl
for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change 14)
appearance unless for reconstruction following an
 Excluded Providers (Code – Excl 11)
Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically
necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by
health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically
medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website /
Medical Practitioner. notified to the policy holders are not admissible. However,
in case of life threatening situations or following an
 Investigation & Evaluation (Code - Excl 04):
accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are
o Expenses related to any admission primarily for payable but not the complete claim.
diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are
ii. SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS –
excluded;
o Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or  All dental treatment or dental surgery of any kind unless
not incidental to the current diagnosis and necessitated due to an Accident
treatment are excluded.
 Routine medical, dental, eye and ear examinations is not
 Hazardous or Adventure Sport (Code – Excl 09): covered unless specifically covered and specified in the
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to Policy Certificate.
participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure
 Any Injury that has occurred prior to the commencement of
sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock
Policy of Cover whether or not the same has been treated,
climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse
or medical advice, diagnosis, care or treatment has been
racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea
sought. Any Illness, complication or ailment arising out of
diving.
or connected to such Injury
 Breach of Law (Code – Excl 10): Expenses for treatment
 Any external congenital anomalies.
directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured
Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of  Any Injury / Illness occurring whilst engaging in any
law with criminal intent. Adventure Sports as an Amateur. Any event which occurs
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
whilst the Insured Person is operating or learning to operate All claims documentation specified within the relevant Section of
any aircraft or common carrier, or performing duties as a the Policy for the Benefit being claimed must be submitted in full.
member of the crew on any aircraft, or scheduled airlines
or is engaging in aviation, or whilst the Insured Person If any claim is not made within 30 days of the Insured Event, then
is mounting into, or dismounting from or traveling in any We will condone such delay on merits only where the delay has
balloon or aircraft other than as a passenger (fare-paying been proved to be for reasons beyond the claimant’s control.
or otherwise) in any scheduled airline anywhere in the
We/Our representatives must be given all reasonable co-
world
operation in investigating the claim in order to assess Our liability
 War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or warlike and quantum in respect of such claim. If requested by Us and at
operations (whether war be declared or not) or civil Our cost, the Insured Person must submit to medical examination
commotion or rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny, by Our nominated Medical Practitioner as often as We consider
arrests, detainments of all kinds and political gatherings, reasonable and necessary and We/Our representatives must be
engaging in aviation other than as a passenger (fare paying permitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization records
or otherwise) in any licensed standard type of aircraft. pertaining to the Insured Person’s Injury/Illness and treatment and
to investigate the facts surrounding the claim.
 Any Injury sustained while performing duty in army, navy,
air force, paramilitary force, police or any other such
Our medical or other representative shall be allowed to examine
institution.
the Insured Person on the occurrence of any alleged Injury or
 Any event which occurs whilst the Insured Person is disablement when and as often as the same may reasonably be
operating or learning to operate any aircraft or common required on behalf of Us. Such evidence as We may require from
carrier, or performing duties as a member of the crew on time to time shall be furnished and a post-mortem examination
any aircraft, or scheduled airlines or is engaging in aviation, report, be furnished within a period of thirty days.
or whilst the Insured Person is mounting into, or
. All claims will be investigated (as required) and settled in
dismounting from or traveling in any balloon or aircraft other
accordance with the applicable regulatory guidelines, including
than as a passenger (fare-paying or otherwise) in any
the IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders Interests) Regulations,
scheduled airline anywhere in the world
2017.
 Any Injury / Illness arising from intentional self- Injury,
suicide or attempted suicide. NOTE:-
 Any Illness, complication or ailment not arising out of or
Please inform us immediately of any change in the address,
connected to Injury
occupation, state of health, or of any other changes affecting the
BASIS OF ASSESSMENT OF CLAIM Insured Person (or his Nominee/ legal heir, as the case may be)
Terms of Renewal
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including
payment of premium by the due dates mentioned in the Policy
 The Policy may be renewed by mutual consent and in such
Schedule) insofar as they relate to anything to be done or
event the Renewal premium should be paid to Us on or
complied with by You or any Insured Person, including complying
before the date of expiry of the Policy and in no case later
with the procedures and requirements in relation to claims, shall
than the Grace Period of 30 days from the expiry of the
be Conditions Precedent to Our liability under this Policy.
Policy. We will not be liable to pay for any claim arising out
We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under of an Injury or Accident or Illness or Hospitalization that
this Policy in respect of an Insured Person, directly or indirectly occurred during the Grace Period.
for, caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to
 You shall on tendering any premium for the Renewal of this
negligence on part of the Insured person.
Policy give notice in writing to Us of any disease, physical
defect or infirmity with which any of the Insured Person(s)
The Claim documents required for the assessment of claims have
have become affected since the expiring Policy start date.
been provided under the respective Sections. All documents
mentioned under the respective sections are mandatory and if POLICY RELATED TERMS AND CONDITIONS
required and at the discretion of the Company, additional
documents may be called for the final claim settlement.  Proof satisfactory to Us shall be furnished of all matters
upon which a claim is based. Any medical or other agent of
We shall be given notice of any event that may give rise to a claim Us shall be allowed to examine the Insured Person(s) on
on toll free number 1800 2666 or on our website the occasion of any alleged Injury or disablement when and
www.icicilombard.com or also in writing at Our address specified as often as the same may reasonably be required on behalf
in the Policy Certificate: of Us and in the event of death evidence as We may require
from time to time shall be furnished including a post-
All claims shall be made within the timelines and in accordance mortem examination report.
with the procedures set out in the relevant Sections of the Policy.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
 You shall give immediate notice to Us of any change in any Company, it shall initiate and complete such
of the business or occupation of the Insured Person. investigation at the earliest, in any case not later
than 30 days from the date of receipt of last
 Any change in the policy terms and conditions including but necessary document, In such cases, the Company
not limited to sum insured and/or coverage shall will not be shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from
permitted within the Period of Cover. the date of receipt of last necessary document.
 In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the
 In case the customer chooses to pay the premium in Company shall be liable to pay interest to the
installments then he/she shall not be able to change the policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from
the date of receipt of last necessary document to the
frequency of payments within the Period of Cover.
date of payment of claim.
 In case the customer has opted for auto renewal, the policy ("Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the
shall be Renewed with the same policy terms & conditions Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of the
financial year in which claim has fallen due)
including but not limited to the sum insured, coverage,
premium paying terms and claim payment terms and policy
4. Complete Discharge
terms & conditions. Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/
her nominees or his/ her legal representative or
 We shall make payment to assignee/partial
assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any
assignee/conditional assignee, as the case may be or in the
benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge
absence of assignee to the Insured Person or the Insured
towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent
Person’s nominee. If there is no assignee or nominee and
of that amount for the particular claim.
the Insured Person is incapacitated or deceased, We will
pay to the Insured Person’s heir, executor or validly
5. Fraud
appointed legal representative. For Sections A & B the
 lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any
Insured Person shall have the right to migrate from this
respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or
Policy to a similar individual health insurance policy, if declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if
available with Us. any fraudulent means or devices are used by the
insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to
obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits
PART III OF THE POLICY SCHEDULE
under this policy and the premium paid shall be
forfeited.
GENERAL TERMS & CLAUSES –
 Any amount already paid against claims made
under this policy but which are found fraudulent later
i. STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES - shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s),
who has made that particular claim, who shall be
1. Disclosure of Information jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon insurer.
shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of  For the purpose of this clause, the expression
misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure of "fraud" means any of the following acts committed
by the insured person or by his agent or the
any material fact by the policyholder.
hospital/doctor/any other pa(y acting on behalf of
the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer
("Material facts" for the purpose of this policy shall mean
or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy:
all relevant information sought by the company in the
o a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not
proposal form and other connected documents to enable true and which the insured person does not
it to take informed decision in the context of underwriting believe to be true;
the risk) o b) the active concealment of a fact by the
insured person having knowledge or belief of
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability the fact;
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled o c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
o d) any such act or omission as the law
by the Insured person for the Company to make any
specially declares to be fraudulent
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.
 The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or
forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if
3. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest)
the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the
 The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the
misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge
case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt
and there was no deliberate intention to suppress
of last necessary document
the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression
 In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the
of material fact are within the knowledge of the
Company shall be liable to pay interest to the
insurer
policyholder from the date of receipt of last
necessary document to the date of payment of claim
6. Multiple Policies
at a rate 2% above the bank rate
 However, when the circumstances of a claim i. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured
warrant an investigation in the opinion of the person during a period from one or more insurers to
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall such person is presently covered and has been continuously
have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim covered without any lapses under any health insurance
in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases producuplan offered by the company, the insured person will get
the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI
obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is guidelines on migration.
within the limits of and according to the terms of the
chosen policy. For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
ii. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layou
have the right to prefer claims under this policy for t.aspx?page=PageNo3987
the amounts disallowed under any other policy /
9. Portability
policies even if the sum insured is not exhausted.
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other
Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim
insurers by applying to such insurer to port the entire policy
subject to the terms and conditions of this policy.
along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date
iii. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum
as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. lf such person is
insured under a single policy, the insured person
presently covered and has been continuously covered without
shall have the right to choose insurer from whom
any lapses under any health insurance policy with an lndian
he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get the
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI
than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity guidelines on portability.
basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link
the treatment costs in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the chosen policy.
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layou
t.aspx?page=PageNo3987
7. Free look period
10. Cancellation
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health
insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of
a) The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days'
porting/migrating the policy.
written notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund
premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen
days (30 days if the Policy is sold through distance marketing)
Refund Grid Applicable
from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms
and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not
% of Premium refund
acceptable.
Day of Policy Period
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look cancellation 1 year 2 years 3 years
Period, the insured shall be entitled to From 16 days to 1
75.0% 80.0% 80.0%
month
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by
the Company on medical examination of the insured person and Above 1 month to 3
60.0% 70.0% 75.0%
the stamp duty charges or months
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of Above 3 months to
40.0% 60.0% 70.0%
return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a 6 months
deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of
cover or Above 6 months to
20.0% 50.0% 60.0%
9 months
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has
commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with
Above 9 months to
the insurance coverage during such period; 0.0% 40.0% 55.0%
12 months
Above 12 months to
8. Migration 30.0% 45.0%
15 months
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to
other health insurance products/plans offered by the company
Above 15 months to
by applying for migration of the policyatleast3O days before the 20.0% 40.0%
18 months
policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Above 18 months to continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver
10.0% 35.0%
21 months of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided
the policy has been maintained without a break
Above 21 months to
0.0% 25.0% 13. Moratorium Period
24 months
After completion of eight continuous years under the policy no
look back to be applied. This period of eight years is called as
Above 24 months to
20.0% moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the
27 months sums insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of
8 continuous years would be applicable from date of
Above 27 months to enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After
10.0%
30 months the expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall
be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent
exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would
Above 30 months to
5.0% however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments,
33 months
deductibles as per the policy contract
Above 33 months to
0.0% 14. Premium Payment in installments
36 months lf the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium on an
instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly, as
* Full refund shall be applicable if cancellation is within the Free mentioned in the policy Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the
Look Period following Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no contrary elsewhere in the policy)
refunds of premium shall be made in respect of the Insured
i. Grace Period of 7 days would be given to pay the
Person where any claim has been admitted by Us or has been
instalment premium due for the policy.
lodged with Us or any Benefit has been availed by the Insured
Person under the Policy. ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available
from the due date of instalment premium till the date of
b) The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds receipt of premium by Company.
of misrepresentation non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit
the insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. There
in respect of the "Waiting Periods", "Specific Waiting
would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of
Periods" in the event of payment of premium within the
misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud
stipulated grace Period.
11. Renewal of Policy iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment premium is
not paid on due date
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of
fraud, misrepresentation by the insured person. i. ln case of instalment premium due not received
within the grace period, the policy will get cancelled.
 The Company shall endeavor to give notice for
ii. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium
renewal. However, the Company is not under
instalments shall immediately become due and
obligation to give any notice for renewal.
payable.
 Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the
insured person had made a claim or claims in the
pending installments from the claim amount due under the
preceding policy years.
policy.
 Request for renewal along with requisite premium
shall be received by the Company before the end of
the policy period. 15. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy lncluding
the Premium Rates
 At the end of the policy period, the policy shall
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or
terminate and can be renewed within the Grace
Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits modify the terms of the policy including the premium rates.
without break in policy. Coverage is not available The insured person shall be notified three months before the
during the grace period. changes are effected.
 No loading shall apply on renewals based on
individual claims experience 16 .Redressal of Grievance
ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the
company through
12. Withdrawal of Policy Website: www. icicilombard.com (Customer Support section).
 In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in
future, the Company will intimate the insured person Toll Free: 1800 2666 (Senior Citizen Included)
about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.
 Insured Person will have the option to migrate to In case you are a senior citizen, your call shall be transferred to
similar health insurance product available with the
the Priority Desk and immediate support shall be provided
Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Fax:91-40-66789768 Email:
bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in
Courier: To the Manager – Service Quality, ICICI Lombard
General Insurance Company Limited, ICICI Lombard House 414,
Veer Savarkar Marg, Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi,
BHOPAL
Mumbai 400025
Office of the Insurance
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Ombudsman,
company's branches with the details of grievance. Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance Madhya Pradesh
Near New Market,
through one of the above methods, insured person may contact Chattisgarh.
Bhopal – 462 003.
the grievance officer at-
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Manager- Service Quality, Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Corporate Manager- Service Quality, Email:
National Manager- Operations & finally bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
BHUBANESHWAR
Director-services and Business development at the following
Office of the Insurance
address:
Ombudsman,
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited,
62, Forest park,
ICICI Lombard House,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Orissa.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025
Email:
bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link
.in
https://www.icicilombard.com/grievance-redressallf insured
person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through
CHANDIGARH
above methods, the insured person may also approach the office Punjab,
Office of the Insurance
of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for Haryana(excluding
Ombudsman,
redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017 Gurugram, Faridabad,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd
Sonepat and
Floor,
The details of Insurance Ombudsman are available below: Bahadurgarh)
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,
Himachal Pradesh,
Jurisdiction of Chandigarh – 160 017. Union Territories of
Office Details Office Union Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 Jammu & Kashmir,
Territory, District) Fax: 0172 - 2708274 Ladakh &
Email:
Chandigarh.
AHMEDABAD bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in
Office of the Insurance
CHENNAI
Ombudsman,
Office of the Insurance
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, Gujarat,
Ombudsman,
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Dadra & Nagar Tamil Nadu,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,
Ahmedabad – 380 001. Haveli, Tamil Nadu
Anna Salai, Teynampet,
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 Daman and Diu. PuducherryTown and
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Email: Karaikal (which are
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.i part of Puducherry).
Fax: 044 - 24333664
n
Email:
BENGALURU bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
Office of the Insurance
Ombudsman, DELHI Delhi &
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. Karnataka. Office of the Insurance Following Districts of
57-27-N-19 Ombudsman, Haryana - Gurugram,
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Faridabad, Sonepat &
Road, Asaf Ali Road, Bahadurgarh.
New Delhi – 110 002.
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 Email:
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
Districts of Uttar
Pradesh :
GUWAHATI Lalitpur, Jhansi,
Office of the Insurance Mahoba, Hamirpur,
Assam,
Ombudsman, Banda, Chitrakoot,
Meghalaya,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Allahabad, Mirzapur,
Manipur,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Sonbhabdra,
Mizoram,
Road, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh,
Arunachal Pradesh,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). Jaunpur,Varanasi,
Nagaland and
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 LUCKNOW Gazipur, Jalaun,
Tripura.
Email: Office of the Insurance Kanpur, Lucknow,
bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in Ombudsman, Unnao, Sitapur,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, Lakhimpur, Bahraich,
HYDERABAD Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Barabanki, Raebareli,
Office of the Insurance Lucknow - 226 001. Sravasti, Gonda,
Ombudsman, Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 Faizabad, Amethi,
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", Andhra Pradesh, Fax: 0522 - 2231310 Kaushambi,
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, Telangana, Email: Balrampur, Basti,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Yanam and bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in Ambedkarnagar,
Hyderabad - 500 004. part of Union Territory Sultanpur,
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 of Puducherry. Maharajgang,
Fax: 040 - 23376599 Santkabirnagar,
Email: Azamgarh,
bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in Kushinagar,
Gorkhpur, Deoria,
JAIPUR Mau, Ghazipur,
Office of the Insurance Chandauli, Ballia,
Ombudsman, Sidharathnagar.
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bhawani Singh Marg, Rajasthan. MUMBAI
Jaipur - 302 005. Office of the Insurance
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 Ombudsman,
Goa,
Email: 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
Mumbai Metropolitan
bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Region
Mumbai - 400 054.
excluding Navi
ERNAKULAM Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Mumbai & Thane.
Office of the Insurance Fax: 022 - 26106052
Ombudsman, Email:
Kerala,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
Lakshadweep,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
Mahe-a part of Union
Ernakulam - 682 015. State of Uttaranchal
Territory of
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 and the following
Puducherry. NOIDA
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 Districts of Uttar
Office of the Insurance
Email: Pradesh:
Ombudsman,
bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace
Bareilly, Bijnor,
4th Floor, Main Road,
KOLKATA Budaun,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Office of the Insurance Bulandshehar, Etah,
West Bengal, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
Ombudsman, Kanooj, Mainpuri,
Sikkim, U.P-201301.
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, Mathura, Meerut,
Andaman & Nicobar Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
4, C.R. Avenue, Moradabad,
Islands. Email:
KOLKATA - 700 072. Muzaffarnagar,
bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 Oraiyya, Pilibhit,
Fax : 033 - 22124341 Etawah, Farrukhabad,
Firozbad,
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
Gautambodhanagar, Any change in the Policy terms and conditions including but not
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, limited to Sum Insured and/or coverage shall not be permitted
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, within the Policy Period. In case the customer chooses to pay the
Shamli, Rampur, premium in installments then he/she shall not be able to change
Kashganj, Sambhal, the frequency of payments within the Policy Period.
Amroha, Hathras,
Kanshiramnagar, 2. Material change
Saharanpur.
The Insured Person shall immediately notify the Company in
PATNA writing of any material change in the risk and cause at his own
Office of the Insurance expense such additional precautions to be taken as
Ombudsman, circumstances may require to ensure safe operation, trade or
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, business practices thereby containing the circumstances that may
Bazar Samiti Road, Bihar, give rise to the claim and We may, adjust the scope of cover and
Bahadurpur, Jharkhand. / or premium, if necessary, accordingly.
Patna 800 006.
3. Records to be maintained
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email:
The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all
bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
relevant particulars and shall allow Us to inspect such record.
PUNE
4. Notice of Charge
Office of the Insurance
Ombudsman, We shall not be bound to take notice or be affected by any notice
Maharashtra,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, of any trust, charge, lien, assignment or other dealing with or
Area of Navi Mumbai
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, relating to this Policy, but the payment by Us to the Insured
and Thane
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Person, Nominee, assignee or his legal heirs of any amount under
excluding Mumbai
Pune – 411 030. the Policy shall in all cases be an effectual discharge to Us.
Metropolitan Region.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: 5. Overriding effect of Policy Certificate
bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
The terms and conditions contained herein and in the Policy
Certificate shall be deemed to form part of the Policy and shall be
read as if they are specifically incorporated herein; however in
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance case of any inconsistency of any term and condition with the
Management System - https:/ligms. irda.qov. in/ scope of cover contained in the Policy Certificate, then the term(s)
and condition(s) contained herein shall be read mutatis mutandis
The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are also available
with the scope of cover/terms and conditions contained in the
on IRDA website: www.irdaindia.org, on the website of General
Policy Certificate and shall be deemed to be modified accordingly
Insurance Council: www.general insurance council.org.in, and
or superseded in case of inconsistency being irreconcilable.
website of the company www.icicilombard.com or from any of the
offices of the Company. 6.The Insured Person is not permitted to cancel only a portion of
the Benefits available. If opting for cancelation, all Benefits under
17. Nomination:
the Policy will be cancelled.
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make
a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the 7. Scope of Cover
policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of
nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and The Scope of Cover shall be worldwide unless specified otherwise
such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the in the Policy Certificate
policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the
8. Policy Disputes
Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy
Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case
Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions,
there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal
limitations and/or exclusions contained herein shall be
representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be
adjudicated or interpreted in accordance with Indian Laws and
treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy.
only competent Indian courts shall have the exclusive jurisdiction
to try all or any matters arising hereunder. The matter shall be
ii. SPECIFIC TERMS AND CLAUSES–
determined or adjudicated in accordance with the law and practice
1. Change in Policy of such Court.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com
9. Arbitration clause Endorsement I: Premium Installment Clause
If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be a. We will accept payment of the premium applicable taxes,
paid under this Policy (liability being otherwise admitted) such charges, cess etc. in monthly/quarterly/semi-annual/annual
difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to installments as specified in the Policy Certificate provided
the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the that the Policyholder continues to perform and observe all
parties to the dispute/difference, or if they cannot agree upon a their obligations hereunder.
single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration,
the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators,
comprising of two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the
parties to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be
appointed by such two arbitrators. Arbitration shall be conducted
under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996. It is clearly agreed and understood that no
difference or dispute shall be referable to arbitration, as
hereinbefore provided, if We have disputed or not accepted
liability under or in respect of this Policy. It is hereby expressly
stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to
any right of action or suit upon this Policy that the award by such
arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of the loss or damage shall be
first obtained.
10. Notices
Any notice, direction or instruction given under this Policy shall be
in writing and delivered by hand, post, or facsimile to: In case of
the Insured Person, at the address specified in the Policy
Certificate.
In case of Us:
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited,
ICICI Lombard House,
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
Prabhadevi,
Mumbai 400 025
Notice and instructions will be deemed served 7 days after posting
or immediately upon receipt in the case of hand delivery, facsimile
or e-mail.
11. Customer Service
If at any time the Insured Person (or his Nominee/ legal heir, as
the case may be) requires any clarification or assistance, they
may contact Our offices at the address specified below, during
normal business hours.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
ICICI Lombard House
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,
Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
Prabhadevi,
Mumbai 400025
OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS –
1. ENDORSEMENTS AVAILABLE UNDER THIS POLICY
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
IRDA Reg. No. 115 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408 UIN: ICIHLIP22092V032122 FAMILY SHIELD
Mailing Address: Registered Office Address: Toll free no: 1800 2666
601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Alternate no : 86552 22666 (chargeable)
New Linking Road, Malad (West) Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com
Mumbai - 400 064 Mumbai 400 025 Website : www.icicilombard.com