ID: user_sample-policy-document_lic-s-new-jeevan-sh
FILE: Sample-Policy-Document_LIC-s-New-Jeevan-Shanti_UIN-512N338V01-(1).pdf
========================================================================

LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA
(Established by the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956)
Registration Number: 512
LIC’S NEW JEEVAN SHANTI (UIN: 512N338V01)
(A Non-Linked, Non-Participating, Individual, Single Premium, Deferred Annuity Plan)
PART - A
Ref: NB (Address and e-mail id of Branch Office):
Space for Name and Address of Space for Address and e-mail id of
____________
Policyholder Branch Office
Dear Policyholder, Date:
Re: Your Policy No. _______________
We have pleasure in forwarding herewith the above policy document comprising of Part A to Part G
which please find in order.
We would also like to draw your kind attention to the information mentioned in the Schedule of the Policy
and the benefits available under the Policy.
Some of our Plans have certain options available under them. It is important that the options, if any,
available under this Plan and mentioned in the Policy Document are noted carefully as it will be helpful
to you, in case you decide to exercise any of the available options. It is also essential to note that such
option, if available and mentioned in the document of this Plan has to be exercised in the right manner
and during the stipulated time limit as prescribed herein.
Free Look Period
We would request you to go through the terms and conditions of the Policy and in case you disagree
with any of the terms and conditions, you may return the Policy within a period of 15 days (30 days if this
policy is purchased online) from the date of receipt of Policy Document stating the reasons of your
objections and disagreement. On receipt of the policy, we shall cancel the same and the amount of
premium deposited by you shall be refunded to you after deducting the charges for stamp duty and
Annuity paid (if any). In case of QROPS, these provisions shall be further subject to any specific
provisions regarding procedures as per Rules and Regulations of the HMRC in this regard. For further
details please refer Condition 6 of Part D of this Policy Document.
In case you have any Complaint/Grievance, you may approach the Branch office on the address
mentioned above or Grievance Redressal Officer/Ombudsman, whose addresses are as under:
Address of Grievance Redressal Officer:
Address and contact details of Insurance Ombudsman:
If you find any errors in this Policy Document, you may return this Policy for corrections.
Thanking you.
Yours faithfully,
p. Chief/Sr./Branch Manager
Agent’s/ Agent’s/ Agent’s/Intermediary’sMobile
Intermediary’s Code Intermediary’s Name Number/ Landline Number
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 1 of 21
We would also like to draw your attention to the following aspects:
1) Change of Address: In case you change your residence, kindly ensure that you inform the change
in address to the servicing Branch Office.
2) Submission of the Existence Certificate: The Existence Certificate must be submitted by the
Annuitant / Primary Annuitant / Secondary Annuitant (as applicable) in the prescribed format as
and when required by the Corporation. The Annuity payments shall be released only on receipt of
the Existence Certificate.
3) Assignment: Assignment should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of the
Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are
enclosed as Annexure- I for reference.
4) Nomination: Nomination should be in accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance
Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 are enclosed in
Annexure -II for reference.
5) Within 90 days from the date of death, intimation of death along with death certificate must be
notified in writing to the office of the Corporation where the policy is serviced for any claims to be
admissible. However, delay in intimation of the genuine claim by the claimant may be condoned by
the Corporation on merit and where delay is proved to be for the reasons beyond his/her control.
6) Section 45 of Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time: The current provisions of the
same are enclosed in Annexure-III.
7) The approved version of Policy Document in respect of this Plan is available on our website:
www.licindia.in
8) Please visit our website: www.licindia.into avail LIC’s e-services.
These measures will enable us to serve you better.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 2 of 21
PREAMBLE
Whereas the LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called “the Corporation”) has
received a Proposal and Declaration for the purchase of a Deferred Annuity under the “LIC’s New
Jeevan Shanti” and the said Proposal and Declaration with the statements contained and referred to
therein, which the Proposer and Annuitant(s) named in the Schedule referred to herein below has
agreed shall be and are hereby declared to be the basis of this Annuity Contract and has received the
Premium for an Annuity amount and on the terms stated in the said Schedule.
Now this Policy Witnesseth that in consideration of the Premium paid, the Corporation will pay the
annuity as specified in the said Schedule and Death Benefit, but without interest, to the person/persons
to whom the same is / are therein expressed to be payable upon proof to the satisfaction of the
Corporation being furnished, in respect of each Annuity payment, that the Annuity payment in question
has become payable and also in respect of the happening of the event on which the Death Benefit is to
become payable as set out in this Policy Document and the title of the person/persons claiming to
receive the Annuity /Death Benefit.
But where the Annuity ceases or determines on the death of the annuitant, no part of the said Annuity
shall be payable or paid for such time as may elapse between the date of payment immediately
preceding the death of annuitant and the day of his/her death, the subsistence of life of the annuitant at
twelve o’clock on the day on which the said annuity falls due being duly certified from time to time in
such manner as the Corporation may require.
And it is hereby declared that this policy shall be subject to the Definitions, Benefits, Conditions Related
To Servicing Aspects, Other Terms And Conditions and Statutory Provisions printed in this Policy and
that the Schedule and every endorsement placed on the Policy by the Corporation shall be deemed to
be part of the Policy.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 3 of 21
SCHEDULE
DIVISIONAL OFFICE: BRANCH OFFICE:
Policy No.: Plan No.:
Date of Commencement of Policy: UIN:
Date of Commencement of Risk: Purchase Price: (Rs.)
Premium: (Rs.)
Additional Benefit on Death per month: (Rs)
Deferment Period: Amount of Annuity payment: (Rs.)
Date of Vesting: Mode of payment of Annuity:
Date of 1st Annuity payment:
Due date:
Annuity Option chosen:
Name and Address of Proposer: Proposal No.:
Date of proposal:
Date of issuance of policy:
Name and Address of Annuitant/Primary Date of Birth of the Annuitant/Primary Annuitant:
Annuitant: Age of the Annuitant/Primary Annuitant:
Date of Birth of Secondary Annuitant:
Age of Secondary Annuitant:
Name and Address of Secondary Annuitant:
Whether age admitted of:
a. Annuitant/Primary Annuitant:
b. Secondary Annuitant:
Option taken for payment of Death Benefit : Lumpsum / Annuitisation/ Installment-
Details of Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938:
Nominee(s) Name Nominee’s Percentage Relationship to the Appointee Name (in case the
Age Share Annuitant/Primary Nominee is a minor
Annuitant /Divyangjan)
Signed on behalf of the Corporation at the above-mentioned Branch office whose address and e-mail ID
are given on the first page and to which all communications relating to the policy should be addressed.
Date:
Examined by:
__________________________
Form No.: p. Chief/Sr./Branch Manager
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 4 of 21
PART – B: DEFINITIONS
The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under:
1. Age is the age last birthday of the Annuitant(s) on the date of commencement of the policy.
2. Annuitant(s) being person(s) on whose life this policy has been taken and who become entitled
to receive the annuity benefits as stated in Policy Schedule.
3. Annuity means a specified amount payable under this policy at specified regular intervals as
mentioned in the schedule and payable as per the specification under the option chosen by the
annuitant as evidenced in the schedule of the policy. Annuity option once chosen cannot be
altered.
4. Appointee is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable on
behalf of the nominee if the benefit becomes payable to the nominee and nominee is minor (as on
the date of claim payment)/dependant person with disability (Divyangjan).
5. Assignee is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an
Assignment.
6. Assignment is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee”. Assignment
should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of Insurance Act, 1938 as amended
from time to time.
7. Beneficiary/Claimant means the person(s)/ entity who is/are entitled to receive benefits under
this Policy. TheBeneficiary to whom Benefits payable is the Annuitant/Primary Annuitant or
surviving named Secondary Annuitant or his Assignee under Section 38 of the Insurance Act,
1938 as amended from time to time or Nominees under Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as
amended from time to timeor Proved Executors or Administrators or other legal representatives of
the Annuitant(s) who should take out representation to his / her estate or limited to the monies
payable under this policy from any court of any State or territory of the Union of India, as
applicable.
8. Corporation means the Life Insurance Corporation of India established under Section 3 of the Life
Insurance Corporation Act, 1956.
9. Date of commencement of policy is the start date of this Policy.
10. Date of commencement of risk is the date on which the Corporation accepts the risk for
insurance (cover) as evidenced in the schedule of the Policy.
11. Date of issuance of policy is a date when a proposal after underwriting is accepted as a Policy
and this contract gets effected.
12. Date of Vesting means the date specified in Policy Schedule on which Deferment Period expires
and the annuity becomes payable in arrears as per the mode chosen for annuity payment.
13. Death Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on death, as specified in Condition 1 of Part C
of this Policy Document.
14. Deferment Period is the period, in years, as chosen by the policyholder and as specified in the
Schedule, commencing from the Date of commencement of policy to the date of Vesting.
15. Discharge form is the form to be filled by Annuitant /Claimant to claim the Surrender/Death
benefit under the policy.
16. Due Date means a fixed date on which the annuity is due and payable.
17. Endorsement means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any amendments or
modifications agreed to or issued by the Corporation.
18. Free Look Period is the period of 15 days (30 days if this policy is purchased online) from the
date of receipt of the Policy Document by the Policyholder to review the terms and conditions of
this policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and conditions, he/ she has
the option to return this policy.
19. IRDAI means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India earlier called as Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA).
20. Joint Life annuity refers to an annuity policy taken jointly on the lives of Primary Annuitant and
Secondary Annuitant. The joint life annuity can be taken between any two persons who are either
lineal descendant/ascendant of the family (i.e. Grandparent, Parent, Children, and Grandchildren)
or spouse or siblings.
21. Loan is the interest bearing repayable amount granted by the Corporation against the surrender
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 5 of 21
value payable to the policyholder.
22. Minor is a person who has not completed 18 years of age.
23. Mode refers to the frequency of Annuity payment as chosen by the Annuitant from the available
modes of annuity i.e. yearly, half-yearly, quarterly, and monthly. The Annuity shall be payable in
arrears i.e. the annuity payment shall commence after 1 year, 6 months, 3 months and 1 month
from the Date of Vesting of Policy depending on whether the mode of annuity payment is Yearly,
Half yearly, Quarterly and Monthly respectively.
24. Monthly tabular annuity rate for the purpose of calculating Additional Benefit on Death means
the annuity rate per Unit Purchase Price applicable for monthly mode without applying any
incentive in annuity rates.
25. Nomination is the process of nominating a person(s) who is (are) named as “Nominee(s)” in the
Proposal Form or subsequently included/ changed by an endorsement. Nomination should be in
accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to
time.
26. Nominee(s) means the person(s) nominated under this policy and who is (are) authorized to
receive the benefit/s under this policy, on the death of the Annuitant/ Primary Annuitant/Secondary
Annuitant, wherever applicable as per the annuity option chosen and to give a valid discharge to
the Corporation on settlement of the claim.
27. Person with disability (Divyangjan) defined under Condition 8 of Part D of this Policy document,
who is the beneficiary under this policy and a relative of the Annuitant/ Primary annuitant.
28. Policy/ Policy Document means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the
Corporation which is a legal contract between the Policyholder and the Corporation.
29. Policyholder is the legal owner of this policy.
30. Premium is the amount paid by the Policyholder as mentioned in the Schedule of this Policy
Document (excluding any taxes which is payable separately) to secure the benefits under the
policy.
31. Primary Annuitant (applicable under joint life Annuity Option)is the primary person on whose
life this policy has been taken and who is entitled to receive the annuity benefits as stated in Policy
Schedule. For joint life annuity option under this policy, word “Annuitant” is used for “Primary
Annuitant”.
32. Purchase Price is an amount mentioned in the Schedule of this Policy Document as opted by the
policyholder which is considered to determine the benefits under the policy.
33. Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) is a pension scheme which is
administered outside United Kingdom and is registered with and hence meets the requirements
set by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
34. Schedule is the part of policy document that gives the specific details of this policy.
35. Secondary Annuitant (applicable under joint life Annuity Option) is the person entitled to
receive the annuity payment, in the event of death of the Primary Annuitant. Surrender means
complete withdrawal / termination of the entire Policy.
36. Surrender Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of surrender in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this policy.
37. UIN means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this Plan by the IRDAI.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 6 of 21
PART – C: BENEFITS
The following benefits are payable under the policy:
1. Benefits payable on Survival or on Death: The benefits payable are as under:
Annuity Annuity Benefit payable on
Benefit payable on Death
Option Description Survival
1 Deferred During deferment Death Benefit shall be
annuity for period: Nothing is Higher of :
Single Life payable during the  Purchase Price plus Accrued Additional
deferment period. Benefit on Death (as specified in Condition 3 of
Part C of this policy document) minus Total
annuity amount payable till date of death or
After deferment  105% of Purchase Price
period: Annuity
payments will be On death of the Annuitant during the deferment
made in arrears as period: Death Benefit as defined above shall be
long as the Annuitant payable to nominee(s) as per the option exercised by
is alive, as per the the Annuitant as specified in Condition 3 of Part D of
chosen mode of this policy document.
annuity payment.
On death of the Annuitant after the deferment
period: The annuity payments shall cease
immediately and Death Benefit as defined above
shall be payable to nominee(s) as per the option
exercised by the Annuitant as specified in Condition 3
of Part D of this policy document.
2 Deferred During deferment Death Benefit shall be
annuity for period: On the Higher of
Joint life survival of the  Purchase Price plus Accrued Additional
Primary Annuitant Benefit on Death (as specified in Condition 3 of
and/or Secondary Part C of this policy document) minus Total
Annuitant during the annuity amount payable till date of death or
deferment period,  105% of Purchase Price.
nothing is payable.
During the Deferment Period:
After deferment On first death (of either of the covered lives):
period: Annuity Nothing shall be payable.
payments will be
made in arrears as On death of the last survivor: Death Benefit as
long as the Primary defined above shall be payable to nominee(s) as per
Annuitant and/or the option exercised by the Annuitant(s) as specified
Secondary Annuitant in Condition 3 of Part D of this policy document.
is alive, as per the
chosen mode of After the Deferment Period:
annuity payment. On first death (of either of the covered lives):
100% of the annuity amount shall continue to be paid
as long as one of the Annuitant is alive.
On death of the last survivor: Annuity payment
shall cease immediately and Death Benefit as
defined above shall be payable to nominee(s) as per
the option exercised by the Annuitant(s) as specified
in Condition 3 of Part D of this policy document.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 7 of 21
2. Maturity Benefit: There is no maturity benefit under this policy.
3. Additional Benefit on Death:
The Additional Benefit on Death shall accrue at the end of each policy month, till the end of
Deferment Period only. The rate of Additional Benefit on Death per month (as specified in the
Schedule) during the Deferment Period shall be as under:
Additional Benefit on Death per month = (Purchase Price * Annuity rate p.a. payable monthly) /
12
Where Annuity rate p.a. payable monthly shall be equal to Monthly tabular annuity rate and shall
depend on the Option chosen, Age at entry of the annuitant(s) and the Deferment Period opted for.
In case of death of the annuitant or surrender of the policy during the Deferment Period, Additional
Benefit on Death for the policy year in which the death/surrender has occurred shall accrue till the
completed policy month as on the date of death/surrender.
PART- D: CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS
1. Proof of Age:
The purchase price having been calculated on the age of the Annuitant(s) as declared in the
Proposal Form, in case the age is found different (lower/higher) than such age, without prejudice to
the Corporation’s other rights and remedies, including those under the Insurance Act, 1938, as
amended from time to time the following action shall be taken:
(i) If the Annuitant’s correct age is found to be different from the age declared in the Proposal
Form, the Annuity payments payable under the Policy shall be altered corresponding to the
correct age of the Annuitant from the next Annuity due date and the total of the excess paid if
any, due to difference between the original Annuity amounts paid and the corrected Annuity
from the commencement of the Policy up to the date of such excess payment, be paid to the
Corporation with interest at such rate as fixed by the Corporation from time to time. The
difference arising out of incorrect annuities paid in the past along with interest shall be collected
from the Annuitant or would be adjusted from the following Annuity payments.
(ii) If the correct age is such as would have made the Annuitant uninsurable under this Policy, then
this policy shall be cancelled and the Premium paid may be refunded after deducting the
charges for stamp duty, taxes and Annuity paid (if any)
2. Forfeiture in certain events:
In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon shall be contravened, or in case it shall
hereafter appear that any untrue or incorrect averment is contained in the proposal and declaration
herein mentioned, or in the statements referred to therein, have not been truly and fairly stated or
that any material information has been withheld, then and in every such case this policy shall be void
and all claims to any benefit in virtue of this policy shall be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of
the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time.
3. Options available for payment of Death Benefit:
The Annuitant(s) shall have to choose one of the following options for the payment of the death
benefit to the nominee(s). The death claim amount shall then be paid to the nominee(s) as per the
option exercised by the Annuitant(s) and no alteration whatsoever shall be allowed to be made by
the nominee(s). This option has to be exercised by Annuitant(s) at the proposal stage. However, this
option can be subsequently modified by Annuitant(s) during his/her life while in currency of the
policy.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 8 of 21
 Lumpsum Death Benefit:
Under this option the entire benefit amount payable on death shall be payable to the
nominee(s) in lumpsum.
 Annuitisation of Death Benefit:
Under this option the benefit amount payable on death shall be utilized for purchasing an
Immediate Annuity from the Corporation for nominee(s) effective from the date of death of the
annuitant/last survivor. The annuity amount payable to the nominee(s) on the admission of
death claim shall be based on the age of nominee(s) and immediate annuity rates prevailing
as on the date of death of Annuitant (last survivor in case of Joint Life Annuity). This option
can be opted for full or part of the benefit amount payable on death. However, the annuity
payments for each nominee(s) shall be subject to the eligibility conditions of the annuity plan
available at that time and then prevailing Regulatory provisions on the minimum limits for
annuities. Currently applicable regulation is IRDAI (Minimum limits for Annuities and other
Benefits) Regulations, 2015. In case the eligibility conditions of the annuity plan available at
that time are not met or the benefit amount payable on death is insufficient to purchase the
minimum amount of annuity, then the said amount shall be paid as a lump sum to the
nominee(s). Any benefits payable to the nominee shall be as per Section 39 of Insurance Act,
1938 as amended from time to time.
 In Installment:
Under this option the benefit amount payable on death can be received in installments over
the chosen period of 5 or 10 or 15 years instead of lumpsum amount. This option can be
exercised for full or part of the Death Benefit payable under the policy. The amount opted by
the Annuitant (i.e. net claim amount) can be either in absolute value or as a percentage of the
total claim proceeds payable.
The installments shall be paid in advance at yearly or half-yearly or quarterly or monthly
intervals, as opted for, subject to minimum installment amount for different modes of
payments being as under:
Mode of Installment payment Minimum installment amount
Monthly Rs. 5000/-
Quarterly Rs. 15000/-
Half-Yearly Rs. 25000/-
Yearly Rs. 50000/-
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount to provide the minimum installment
amount as per the option exercised by the Annuitant(s), the claim proceed shall be paid in
lumpsum only.
For all the installment payment options commencing during the 12 months’ period from 1st
May to 30th April, the interest rate applicable for arriving at the instalment amount shall be
annual effective rate equal to the 10 year G-Sec Base/Par yield p.a. compounding half-yearly
minus 200 basis points; where, the 10 year G-Sec Base/Par yield shall be as at last trading
day of previous financial year and this rate shall be applicable for all the installment payment
Periods (5/10/15 years).
Accordingly, for the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st May, 2020 to 30th April, 2021, the
applicable interest rate for the calculation of installment amount shall be 4.71% p.a. effective.
4. Surrender:
The policy can be surrendered at anytime during the policy term.
On the payment of the surrender value, the policy shall terminate and all other benefits shall cease.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 9 of 21
The Surrender Value payable shall be higher of Guaranteed Surrender Value or Special Surrender
Value.
Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV):
Guaranteed Surrender Value = (GSV Factor * Purchase Price) minus total annuity amount
payable up to the date of surrender
The applicable Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) Factors shall be:
Policy Year 1 2 3 4 5 and above
GSV Factor 75% 75% 75% 90% 90%
Note: If reduced annuity amount is paid under a policy on account of loan taken, the gross
annuity amount originally payable shall be deducted for the calculation of Surrender Value.
Special Surrender Value:
The Special Surrender Value is reviewable and shall be determined by the Corporation from
time to time subject to prior approval of IRDAI.
Any loan amount outstanding along with interest and/or any other amount recoverable from
Annuitant shall be recovered from the surrender value payment.
In case of QROPS, the surrender provisions shall be further subject to any specific provisions
regarding procedures as per Rules and Regulations of the HMRC.
5. Policy Loan:
Loan facility shall be available at any time after three months from the completion of policy (i.e. 3
months from the date of issuance of policy) or after expiry of the free-look period, whichever is later,
subject to the following terms and conditions, within the surrender value of the policy for such
amounts and on such further terms and conditions as the Corporation may fix from time to time.
Under joint life the loan can be availed by the Primary Annuitant and in the absence of Primary
Annuitant the same can be availed by the Secondary Annuitant.
The maximum amount of loan that can be granted under the policy shall be such that the effective
annual interest amount payable on loan does not exceed 50% of the annual annuity amount payable
under the policy subject to maximum of 80% of Surrender Value.
During Deferment Period:
The policy loan will be available subject to the following terms and conditions:
i) Interest on Loan during the deferment period shall be paid on compounding half-yearly basis
to the Corporation at the rate to be specified by the Corporation at the time of taking loan.
The first payment of interest is to be made on the next policy anniversary or on the date six
month before the next policy anniversary which ever immediately follows the date on which
the loan is sanctioned and every half year thereafter.
ii) In case if the loan is not repaid during the Deferment Period and if there is no default in the
interest payment as of the end of Deferment Period, then Interest on the loan shall be
recovered from annuity amount payable after the Deferment Period.
iii) In case if the loan is not repaid during the Deferment Period and if there is a default in the
interest payment as of the end of the Deferment Period, the difference of Surrender Value
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 10 of 21
and the loan outstanding amount along with interest, if any, shall be payable to the Primary
Annuitant / Secondary Annuitant and the policy shall be terminated.
iv) During the Deferment Period, in the event of failure of payment of interest payment on the
due dates and when the outstanding loan amount along with interest is to exceed the
Surrender Value, the policy shall be forfeited to the Corporation. The difference of Surrender
Value and the loan outstanding amount along with interest, if any, shall be payable to the
Annuitant / Secondary Annuitant and the policy shall be terminated.
After Deferment period:
Loan interest will be recovered from annuity amount payable under the policy. The Loan
interest will accrue as per the frequency of annuity payment under the policy and it will be
due on the due date of annuity. The loan outstanding shall be recovered from the claim
proceeds at the time of exit.
The loan interest rate for all the loans commencing during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to
30th April, shall be compounding half-yearly rate not exceeding 10 year G-Sec Base/Par yield p.a.
compounding half-yearly plus 300 basis points. The 10 year G-Sec Base/Par yield shall be as at last
trading date of previous financial year. The calculated interest rate shall be applicable for full term of
Loan.
For the loan sanctioned during the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st May, 2020 to 30th April,
2021, the applicable interest rate is 9.50% p.a. compounding half-yearly for entire term of the loan.
Any change in basis of determination of interest rate for policy loan shall be subject to prior approval
of IRDAI.
In case of QROPS, above policy loan provisions shall be subject to Rules and Regulations of HMRC
in this regard.
6. Free Look period:
During the Free Look period of 15 days (30 days if this policy is purchased online) from the date of
receipt of the Policy Document by the Policyholder, if the Policyholder is not satisfied with the Terms
and Conditions of the policy, he/she may return the policy to the Corporation stating the reason of
objections. On receipt of the same the Corporation shall cancel the Policy and return the Premium
paid after deducting the charges for stamp duty and annuity paid, if any. However, this condition of
Free Look period shall only be applicable in case of new purchase of Deferred Annuity plan.
Wherever the purchase is from the existing fund the same shall not be applicable.
The treatment of other policies shall be as below:
a) If this policy is purchased out of proceeds of a deferred pension plan of any other Life
Insurer: The proceeds from cancellation will be transferred back to that Life Insurer.
b) If this policy has been purchased as QROPS as detailed in Condition 7 below: The proceeds
from cancellation shall only be transferred back to the fund house from where the money was
received. In case of QROPS, above provisions shall be further subject to any specific
provisions regarding procedures as per Rules and Regulations of the HMRC in this regard.
7. If this policy is purchased as QROPS (Qualifying Recognized Overseas Pension Scheme),
through transfer of UK tax relieved assets the following terms and conditions prescribed by
HMRC (Her Majesty Revenue & Customs) shall apply:
i. Minimum Vesting Age shall be 55 years.
ii. If the policy is cancelled during the Free Look period, the proceeds from cancellation shall only
be transferred back to the fund house from where the money was received.
iii. Overseas transfer charge - In the event of applicable tax charge arising as a result of an
overseas transfer (Her Majesty Revenue & Customs (HMRC) - policy paper – The overseas
transfer charge – guidance, published 8th March 2017) for which the Scheme Manager i.e. Life
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 11 of 21
Insurance Corporation of India may become liable, Corporation shall deduct an amount only to
the extent of the applicable tax charge from the Fund transferred and remit the same to
HMRC.
iv. Subject to specific Plan features other terms and conditions of HMRC shall also apply as
applicable from time to time.
8. Option to take the plan for the benefit of dependant person with disability(Divyangjan):
If the Proposer has a dependant person with disability (Divyangjan), the Proposer can purchase
Deferred Annuity for Single life (Option 1) on own life for the benefit of Divyangjan as Nominee.
In case of death of the Annuitant (Proposer), where the Purchase Price is less than Rs.1,50,000, the
Death Benefit shall compulsorily be utilized to purchase Immediate Annuity (as per option chosen by
the Annuitant) on the life of the Divyangjan who would be the nominee.
In case of Annuitisation, the annuity payment to Divyangjan shall be paid irrespective of any limit on
minimum annuity payment, minimum age at entry and Purchase Price criteria and annuity rates
applicable shall be then prevailing Immediate Annuity rates.
For deciding eligible disability of dependant person with disability (Divyangjan) as Nominee,
reference is to be made to meaning of “person with disability” as assigned to it in Section 2(s) of
“The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016” or any other applicable Act in this regard.
PART –E
Not Applicable.
PART-F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1. a)Assignment:
Assignment is allowed under this Plan as per section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended
from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-I of this policy
document. The notice of assignment should be submitted for registration to the office of the
Corporation, where the policy is serviced.
b)Nomination:
Nomination is required as per section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time.
The current provisions of Section 39 are contained in Annexure-II of this policy document.
The notice of nomination or change of nomination should be submitted for registration to the office
of the Corporation, where the policy is serviced. In registering nomination the Corporation does not
accept any responsibility or express any opinion as to its validity or legal effect.
2. Suicide:
This Policy shall be void if the Annuitant/ Last Survivor in case of joint life annuity (whether sane or
insane at the time) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of
risk. In such case, an amount which is higher of the 80% of the Premium paid or Surrender Value
shall be payable. The Corporation will not entertain any other claim.
3. Tax:
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other
constitutional Tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable
from time to time.
The amount of any applicable taxes payable as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the
policyholder on Premium payable under the policy, which shall be collected separately in addition to
the Premium payable by the policyholder. The amount of Tax paid shall not be considered for the
calculation of benefits payable under the Plan.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 12 of 21
4. Normal requirements for benefit payable:
For annuities in payment:
The Existence Certificate in the format prescribed by the Corporation is to be submitted by the
Annuitant/ Primary Annuitant as and when required by the Corporation. In case of Option 2 (as
defined in Condition 1of Part C), after the death of the Primary Annuitant, the Existence
Certificate of the surviving Secondary Annuitant will be required. The Annuity payments shall be
released only on receipt of the Existence Certificate.
On death of the Annuitant(s): The normal documents which the claimants shall submit while
lodging the claim in case of death of the Annuitant/Secondary Annuitant shall be the claim form,
as prescribed by the Corporation, accompanied with original policy document, NEFT mandate
from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account, proof of title, proof of
death, whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Corporation. If the age is not admitted
under the policy, the proof of age of the Annuitant/ Secondary Annuitant shall also be submitted.
Within 90 days from the date of death, intimation of death along with death certificate must be
notified in writing to the office of the Corporation where the policy is serviced for any claim to be
admissible. However, delay in intimation of the genuine claim by the claimant, may be condoned
by the Corporation, on merit and where delay is proved to be for reasons beyond his/her control.
On Surrender:
In case of surrender of a policy, the Annuitant shall submit the discharge form along with the
original policy document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount
to the bank account besides proof of age, if the age is not admitted earlier.
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be
required as per law shall also be required to be submitted.
5. Force Majeure: In the event where the Corporation’s performance or any other obligations are
prevented or hindered as a consequence of any act of God or state, strike, lock out, legislation or
restriction by any government or any other statutory authority or any other circumstances that lie
beyond the Corporation’s anticipation or control, the performance of this policy shall be wholly or
partially suspended during the continuance of such force majeure. The Corporation shall resume its
obligations towards the Policy as soon as the Force Majeure event ceases. The Corporation
undertakes to keep the IRDAI informed and seek prior approval before effecting any of these
changes.
6. Section 45 of Insurance Act, 1938:
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time shall be
applicable. The current provisions are contained in Annexure - III of this policy document.
7. Legislative Changes:
The Terms and conditions under this policy are subject to variation in accordance with the relevant
Legislation & Regulations.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 13 of 21
PART-G: STATUTORY PROVISIONS
Grievance Redressal Mechanism:
Of the Corporation:
The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers at Branch/ Divisional/ Zonal/ Central Office to
redress grievances of customers. For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances the Corporation
has introduced Customer friendly Integrated Complaint Management System through our Customer
Portal (website) which is http://www.licindia.in, where a registered policy holder can directly register
complaint/ grievance and track its status. Customers can also contact at e-mail id
co_crmgrv@licindia.com for redressal of any grievances.
Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim repudiation have the option of referring their
cases for review to Zonal Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee or Central Office Claims Dispute
Redressal Committee. A retired High Court/ District Court Judge is member of each of the Claims
Dispute Redressal Committees.
Of IRDAI:
In case the customer is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from us within 15
days, then the customer may approach the Grievance Cell of the IRDAI through any of the following
modes:
 Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre)
 Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in
 Register the complaint online at http://www.igms.irdai.gov.in
 Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter:
Consumer Affairs Department, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India,
Survey no. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad – 500 032,
Telangna.
Of Ombudsman:
For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who
provides for low cost and speedy arbitration to customers.
The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider complaints or
disputes relating to the matters such as:
(a). Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Act, 1999;
(b). Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health insurer;
(c). Disputes over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy;
(d). Misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the policy document or policy
contract;
(e). Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the dispute relates to claim;
(f). Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries;
(g). Issuance of life insurance policy, general insurance policy including health insurance policy
which is not in conformity with the proposal form submitted by the proposer;
(h). Non-issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium in life insurance and general insurance
including health insurance; and
(i). Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 as
amended from time to time or the regulations, circulars, guidelines or instructions issued by the
IRDAI from time to time or the terms and conditions of the policy contract, in so far as they relate
to issues mentioned at clauses (a) to (f)
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 14 of 21
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions mentioned in this
document the English version shall stand valid.
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND THEREIN,
RETURN IT IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 15 of 21
Annexure - I
Assignment - As per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938
(1) A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part, whether with or without
consideration, may be made only by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate
instrument, signed in either case by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly authorised agent
and attested by at least one witness, specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or assignment and
the reasons thereof, the antecedents of the assignee and the terms on which the assignment is
made.
(2) An insurer may, accept the transfer or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement made
under sub-section(1), where it has sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or assignment is
not bonafide or is not in the interest of the policyholder or in public interest or is for the purpose of
trading of insurance policy.
(3) The insurer shall, before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing the reasons for
such refusal and communicate the same to the policyholder not later than thirty days from the date
of the policy-holder giving notice of such transfer or assignment.
(4) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to decline to act upon such transfer or
assignment may within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the communication from the
insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Authority.
(5) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or assignment shall be complete and
effectual upon the execution of such endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where the
transfer or assignment is in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as against an insurer, and
shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee, or his legal representative, any right to sue for the
amount of such policy or the moneys secured thereby until a notice in writing of the transfer or
assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument itself or a copy thereof certified to be
correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised agents have been delivered to the
insurer:
Provided that where the insurer maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice shall
be delivered only at the place where the policy is being serviced.
(6) The date on which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the insurer shall regulate
the priority of all claims under a transfer or assignment as between persons interested in the policy;
and where there is more than one instrument of transfer or assignment the priority of the claims
under such instruments shall be governed by the order in which the notices referred to in sub-
section (5) are delivered:
Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between assignees, the dispute shall
be referred to the Authority.
(7) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), the insurer shall record the fact of such
transfer or assignment together with the date thereof and the name of the transferee or the
assignee and shall, on the request of the person by whom the notice was given, or of the transferee
or assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by the regulations, grant a written
acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice; and any such acknowledgement shall be conclusive
evidence against the insurer that he has duly received the notice to which such acknowledgment
relates.
(8) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the insurer shall, from the date of
the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), recognize the transferee or assignee named
in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under the policy, and such
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 16 of 21
person shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor was subject
at the date of the transfer or assignment and may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy,
obtain a loan under the policy or surrender the policy without obtaining the consent of the transferor
or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings.
Explanation – Except where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates that
the assignment or transfer is conditional in terms of subsection (10) hereunder, every assignment or
transfer shall be deemed to be an absolute assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee,
as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the absolute assignee or transferee respectively.
(9) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of life insurance under an
assignment or transfer effected prior to the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment)
Act, 2015 shall not be affected by the provisions of this section.
(10) Notwithstanding any law or custom having the force of law to the contrary, an assignment in favour
of a person made upon the condition that-
a. The proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the policyholder or the nominee or
nominees in the event of either the assignee or transferee predeceasing the insured; or
b. The insured surviving the term of the policy , shall be valid:
Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or surrender
a policy.
(11) In the case of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-section (1), the
liability of the insurer shall be limited to the amount secured by partial assignment or transfer and
such policyholder shall not be entitled to further assign or transfer the residual amount payable
under the same policy.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 17 of 21
Annexure – II
Nomination - As per section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938
1. The holder of a policy of life insurance on his own life may, when effecting the policy or at any time
before the policy matures for payment, nominate the person or persons to whom the money secured
by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death:
Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful for the policy holder to appoint any
person in the manner laid down by the insurer, to receive the money secured by policy in the event
of his death during the minority of the nominee.
2. Any such nomination in order to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the policy
itself, be made by an endorsement on the policy communicated to the insurer and registered by him
in the records relating to the policy and any such nomination may at any time before the policy
matures for payment be cancelled or changed by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will,
as the case may be, but unless notice in writing of any such cancellation or change has been
delivered to the insurer, the insurer shall not be liable for any payment under the policy made
bonafide by him to a nominee mentioned in the text of the policy or registered in records of the
insurer.
3. The insurer shall furnish to the policy holder a written acknowledgement of having registered a
nomination or a cancellation or change thereof, and may charge such fee as may be specified by
regulations for registering such cancellation or change.
4. A transfer or assignment of a policy made in accordance with section 38 shall automatically cancel a
nomination:
Provided that the assignment of a policy to the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the time of
the assignment, in consideration of a loan granted by that insurer on the security of the policy within
its surrender value, or its reassignment on repayment of the loan shall not cancel a nomination, but
shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the insurer’s interest in the policy:
Provided further that the transfer or assignment of a policy, whether wholly or in part, in
consideration of a loan advanced by the transferee or assignee to the policyholder, shall not cancel
the nomination but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the interest of the
transferee or assignee, as the case may be, in the policy:
Provided also that the nomination, which has been automatically cancelled consequent upon the
transfer or assignment, the same nomination shall stand automatically revived when the policy is
reassigned by the assignee or retransferred by the transferee in favour of the policyholder on
repayment of loan other than on a security of policy to the insurer.
5. Where the policy matures for payment during the lifetime of the person whose life is insured or
where the nominee or, if there are more nominees than one, all the nominees die before the policy
matures for payment, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to the policyholder or his
heirs or legal representatives or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be.
6. Where the nominee or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees survive the
person whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to such survivor or
survivors.
7. Subject to the other provisions of this section, where the holder of a policy of insurance on his own
life nominates his parents, or his spouse, or his children, or his spouse and children, or any of them,
the nominee or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to the amount payable by the insurer to him or
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 18 of 21
them under sub-section (6) unless it is proved that the holder of the policy, having regard to the
nature of his title to the policy, could not have conferred any such beneficial title on the nominee.
8. Subject as aforesaid, where the nominee, or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or
nominees, to whom sub-section (7) applies, die after the person whose life is insured but before the
amount secured by the policy is paid, the amount secured by the policy, or so much of the amount
secured by the policy as represents the share of the nominee or nominees so dying (as the case
may be), shall be payable to the heirs or legal representatives of the nominee or nominees or the
holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be, and they shall be beneficially entitled to such
amount.
9. Nothing in sub-sections (7) and (8) shall operate to destroy or impede the right of any creditor to be
paid out of the proceeds of any policy of life insurance.
10. The provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8) shall apply to all policies of life insurance maturing for
payment after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015.
11. Where a policyholder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds and benefit of his policy
has not been made to him because of his death, in such a case, his nominee shall be entitled to the
proceed and benefit of his policy.
12. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any policy of life insurance to which section 6 of the
Married Women’s Property Act, 1874, applies or has at any time applied:
Provided that where a nomination made whether before or after the commencement of the Insurance
Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, in favour of the wife of the person who has insured his life or of his
wife and children or any of them is expressed, whether or not on the face of the policy, as being
made under this section, the said section 6 shall be deemed not to apply or not to have applied to
the policy.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 19 of 21
Annexure-III
Section- 45 as per Insurance Act, 1938
1. No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of
three years from the date of the policy, i.e. from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of
commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy,
whichever is later.
2. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of
issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the
date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later on the ground of fraud:
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal
representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such
decision is based.
Explanation I.-For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression “fraud” means any of the
following acts committed by the insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to
induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:-
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to
be true;
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent.
Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the assessment of the risk by the insurer is not
fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of
the insured or his agent, keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence is, in itself, equivalent to
speak.
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance
policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the misstatement of or suppression of a
material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate
intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact are
within the knowledge of the insurer:
Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the
policyholder is not alive.
Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for the
purpose of the formation of the contract, to be the agent of the insurer.
4. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of
issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the
date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression
of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or
other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued:
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal
representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such
decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based:
Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or
suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud the premiums collected on the policy
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 20 of 21
till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or
assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or suppression of fact shall
not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer, the
onus is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said fact no life insurance
policy would have been issued to the insured.
5. Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is
entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of
the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in
the proposal.
Sample Policy Document- LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V01) Page 21 of 21