HOMEOWNERS 4 - CONTENTS BROAD FORM SPECIMEN POLICY
Policy Number: HO4-8849201-92
Named Insured: Michael C. Sterling
Residence Premises: 1208 Oak Ridge Blvd, Unit 4A, Charlotte, NC 28205

SECTION I - PROPERTY COVERAGES
COVERAGE C - PERSONAL PROPERTY
We cover personal property owned or used by an insured while it is anywhere in the world. Our limit of liability for personal property usually located at an insured's residence other than the residence premises is 10% of the limit of liability for Coverage C, or $1,000, whichever is greater.

COVERAGE D - LOSS OF USE
The limit of liability for Coverage D is the total limit for all additional living expenses and fair rental value necessary to maintain your normal standard of living if a loss covered under this Section makes the residence premises uninhabitable.

SECTION I - PERILS INSURED AGAINST
We insure for direct physical loss to the property described in Coverage C caused by fire or lightning, windstorm or hail, explosion, riot or civil commotion, aircraft, vehicles, smoke, vandalism or malicious mischief, theft, falling objects, and weight of ice, snow, or sleet.

SECTION I - EXCLUSIONS
We do not insure for loss caused directly or indirectly by any of the following, regardless of any other cause contributing concurrently or in any sequence to the loss:
1. Water Damage, meaning flood, surface water, waves, tidal water, overflow of any body of water, or water which backs up through sewers or drains.
2. Earth Movement, including earthquake, landslide, mudflow, or earth sinking.
3. War, insurrection, or nuclear hazard.
4. Neglect, meaning neglect of the insured to use all reasonable means to save and preserve property at and after the time of a loss.

SECTION I - DEDUCTIBLE
Unless otherwise noted in this policy, the standard deductible is $500.00. We will pay only that part of the total of all loss payable under Section I that exceeds the deductible amount shown in the Declarations.

SECTION I - CONDITIONS AND DUTIES AFTER LOSS
In case of a loss to covered property, you must see that the following are done:
1. Give prompt written notice to us or our insurance agent within thirty (30) days of the occurrence.
2. Notify the police in case of loss by theft.
3. Protect the property from further damage and prepare an inventory of damaged personal property showing the quantity, description, actual cash value, and amount of loss.
4. Send to us, within sixty (60) days after our request, your signed, sworn proof of loss.

SECTION I AND II - CANCELLATION AND NON-RENEWAL
You may cancel this policy at any time by returning it to us or by letting us know in writing of the date cancellation is to take effect. We may cancel this policy only for the reasons stated below by letting you know in writing of the date cancellation takes effect:
1. When you have not paid the premium, we may cancel at any time by letting you know at least ten (10) days before the date cancellation takes effect.
2. When this policy has been in effect for less than sixty (60) days, we may cancel for any reason by letting you know at least thirty (30) days before the date cancellation takes effect.

SECTION I AND II - SUBROGATION
An insured may waive in writing before a loss all rights of recovery against any person. If not waived, we may require an assignment of rights of recovery for a loss to the extent that payment is made by us. If an assignment is sought, an insured must sign and deliver all related papers and cooperate with us.

SECTION I AND II - GRACE PERIOD FOR PREMIUM PAYMENT
A grace period of thirty (30) days will be granted for the payment of each premium falling due after the first premium, during which grace period the policy shall continue in force, subject to deduction of overdue premium.
